



简　　介


1578年艾汶河畔的斯特拉福镇。有位男孩坐在书桌旁专心地学习，他认真听课、拼命看书。可他在想些什么呢？

1587年伦敦，一位年轻人首次到伦敦谋生。他听着闹市的喧嚣声，看看伦敦塔雄伟的大墙，望着泰晤士河的淙淙流水。“静谧的泰晤士河，潺潺地流淌，直到我唱完心中的歌。”

1601年伦敦。泰晤士河上的船夫对人群大声喊着：“快来，快来，快来呀！‘环球剧院’快挤满人啦！”2000多观众渡过河，前来观看莎士比亚的最新一部戏剧——《哈姆雷特》。

这本讲述莎士比亚生平故事的书是由托比叙述的。托比不是一个真实的人物——或许莎士比亚也曾有过这样一位朋友，不过，我们无法确知。但是书中的其他人物历史上确有其人。他们非常熟悉这位演员、诗人兼剧作家莎士比亚。他们称他“莎士比亚缙绅”，都认为他是英国最杰出的诗人。他的朋友本·琼生曾这样写道：

“他不属于一个时代，而是属于所有的时代。”

本书作者詹妮弗·芭斯特是位资历很深的教师和作家，她生活在英国西南的德文郡。





1Toby remembers


Toby remembers

My name is Toby. I'm an old man, eighty-three this spring. My house is right in the middle of Stratford- upon-Avon, and I can watch the street market from my window. But I live very quietly now. I'm just an old man, sitting in a chair.

I once knew the greatest man in England. For thirty years I was his friend. I worked with him in the theatre, through the good times and the bad times. He was a good friend to me. He was also the best playwright, the best poet, that ever lived in England. Will Shakespeare was his name.

I saw all his plays in the theatre. People loved them. They shouted, laughed and cried, ate oranges, and called for more. All kinds of people. Kings, Queens, Princes, great lords and ladies, poor people, the boys who held the horses... everyone. Will Shakespeare could please them all.

He put me in a play once. Well, he used my name—Toby. Twelfth Night was the play, I remember. Sir Toby Belch. He was a big fat man, who liked drinking too much and having a good time. Queen Elizabeth the First watched that play—on Twelfth Night, the 6th of January, 1601. She liked it, too.

Will's dead now, of course. He's been dead more than thirty years, and no one sees his plays now. The Puritans have closed all the theatres. There's no singing, no dancing, no plays. It wasn't like that in my young days. We had a good time in London, Will and I...

I've no teeth now, and my hair has all fallen out, but I can still think—and remember. I remember when Will and I were young, just boys really...

right adj. most suitable. 恰好。

playwright n. a writer of plays. 剧作家。

lord n. a noble man of high rank. 贵族。

please v. to make amusing remark; giving satisfaction (to). 取悦；使满足。

Puritan n. (in England and New England in the 16th and 17th centuries) (a member) of a religious group that wished to make religion simpler and opposed the use of ceremony in church services. （英格兰及新英格兰在16及17世纪的）清教徒（主张宗教简朴，反对宗教仪式）。





1 　托比的回忆


我叫托比，一位年迈的老人，今年春天年过83岁。我的家在艾汶河畔斯特拉福镇中心，透过窗户，便可以望到街道的闹市。我的生活平和宁静，我只是一位坐在椅子上安度晚年的老头子罢了。

我曾认识英国的一位最伟大的人物。我与他相交30年，同在剧团工作，也共同度过人生中欢乐与艰辛的岁月。他是我的好友，也是英国最优秀的剧作家，最杰出的诗人。他就是威尔·莎士比亚。

我看过他所有上演的戏剧。人们热爱他。观众们叫着、笑着，一边吃着桔子，一边嚷嚷着要看更多的戏剧。形形色色的人，上自国王、王后、王子和豪富名女，下至贫苦百姓和牵马的脚夫……所有的人，威尔·莎士比亚都能令他们开心欢娱。

他曾将我写进剧本，剧中用了我的原名——托比。我记得剧名为《第十二夜》，剧中的托比·培尔契爵士又大又胖而且喜欢酗酒行乐。女王伊丽莎白一世于1601年1月6号观看了此剧——《第十二夜》，也很喜欢。

当然威尔现在已不在人世，他过世都30多年了，如今没有人看他的戏。自从清教徒关闭了所有的剧院，就不再有歌声、舞蹈和戏剧了。如今的情形同我年轻时与威尔在伦敦度过的快乐时光相比已经大不一样了。

虽然我现在没有牙齿，头发也掉光了，但我还能思考——还能回忆，我记得威尔和我年轻的时候，还是孩子的时候……





2Stratford-upon-Avon


Stratford-upon-Avon

It was a sunny day in October 1579 when I first met Will, just outside Stratford, near a big field of apple trees. I saw a boy up in one of the trees. He had red hair and looked about two years older than me.

'What are you doing up there?' I called.

'Just getting a few apples,' he said, smiling.

'Those are Farmer Nash's apples,' I said, 'and he'll send his dogs after you if he sees you.'

'Mr Nash has gone to market,' the boy said. 'Come on! They're good apples.'

The next minute I was up the tree with him. But Will was wrong. Farmer Nash wasn't at the market, and a few minutes later we saw his angry red face above the wall on the far side of the field.

Will and I ran like the wind and only stopped when we reached the river. We sat down to eat our apples.

Will was fifteen, and lived in Henley Street, he told me. His father was John Shakespeare, and he had a sister, Joan, and two younger brothers, Gilbert and Richard. There was another sister who died, I learnt later. And the next year he had another brother, little Edmund—the baby of the family.

'Now, what about you?' he asked.

'There's only me and my sister,' I said. 'My parents are dead, and we live with my mother's brother. He's a shoe maker in Ely Street and I work for him. What do you do?'

'I go to Mr Jenkins' school in Church Street,' Will said. 'Every day, from seven o'clock until five o'clock. Not Sundays, of course.'

I was sorry for him. 'Isn't it boring?' I asked.

'Sometimes. Usually it's all right.' He lay back and put his hands behind his head. 'But we have to read and learn all these Latin writers. I want to read modern writers, and English writers, like Geoffrey Chaucer. Can you read?' he asked.

'Of course I can read!' I said. 'I went to school.'

Will sat up and began to eat another apple. 'I want to be a writer,' he said. 'A poet. I want that more than anything in the world.'

We were friends from that day, until the day he died. We met nearly every day, and he taught me a lot about books and poetry and writers. He always had his nose in a book.

When Will left school, he worked for his father in Henley Street. John Shakespeare was a glove-maker, and he had other business too, like buying and selling sheep. But Will wasn't interested.

'What are we going to do, Toby?' he said to me one day. 'We can't spend all our lives making shoes and gloves!'

'Well,' I said, 'we could run away to sea and be sailors. Sail round the world, like Francis Drake.'

Drake sailed back to Plymouth in 1581, after his three-year journey round the world, but we were still in Stratford. We made lots of plans, but nothing ever came of them.

Will was still reading a lot and he was already writing poems himself. He sometimes showed them to me, and I said they were very good. I didn't really know anything about poetry then, but he was my friend.

Will was not happy with his writing. 'I've got so much to learn, Toby,' he said. 'So much to learn.'

Poor Will. He had a lot to learn about women, too. One day in October 1582 he came to my house with a long face.

'I'll never leave Stratford.' he said.

'Why not?' I asked. 'We'll get away one day. You'll see.'

'Perhaps you will,' he said, 'but I'm going to be married in a few weeks' time. To Anne Hathaway.'

My mouth fell open and stayed open. 'Married! To Anne Hathaway? Is that the Hathaways over at Shottery?'

'Yes,' Will said. I was working on some shoes on the table, and Will picked one up and looked at it.

'Well, er, she's a fine girl, of course,' I said uncomfortably. 'But... but, Will, she's twenty-six and you're only eighteen!'

'I know,' Will said. 'But I've got to marry her.'

'Oh no!' I said. 'You mean, she's...'

'That's right,' said Will. 'In about six months' time I'm going to be a father.'

sunny adj. having bright sunlight. 阳光充足的。

outside prep. 在外面；向……之外。

farmer n. a man who owns or plans the work on a farm. 农场主，农民。

market n. a building, square, or open place where people meet to buy and sell goods, esp. food, or sometimes animals. 市场，集市场所。

learn v. (learned or learnt) to become informed (of). 得知，获悉。

shoe-maker n. 鞋匠。

bore v. (boring) to make (someone) tired or uninterested, esp. by continual dull talk. （贬义）令人厌烦。

modern adj. of present time, or of the not far distant past; not ancient. 现代的；近代的。

nearly adv. almost; not quite or not yet completely. 几乎，近乎。

glove n. 手套。

interested adj. concerned; having or showing interest. 关切的，感兴趣的，表现出兴趣的。

sailor n. a person with a job on a ship, esp. one who is not a ship's officer. 船员，水手。

sail v. (of any ship) to travel on the water. （指任何船于水上）航行。

journey n. a trip of some distance. 旅行，旅程。

marry v. to take (a person) in marriage. 结婚。

uncomfortably adv. 不舒服地。

mean v. have in mind as or for a purpose. 意为。





2 　艾汶河畔的斯特拉福镇


我第一次遇见威尔是在1579年10月的一天。那天，阳光明媚，就在斯特拉福镇外一座大苹果园附近，我看见有棵苹果树上坐着一位小男孩，长着红色头发，看模样大概大我两岁。

“你在上边干什么？”我叫道。

“摘几个苹果。”他笑着答道。

“那可是纳什农场主的苹果，”我说，“如果他发现了，就要放狗咬你的。”

“纳什先生去集市了，”男孩说道，“来吧！苹果不错。”

一会儿我也上了树。但是威尔错了，纳什先生并没去集市，几分钟后我们看见果园那端墙头露出一张气得发红的脸。

威尔和我见势撒腿就跑，一口气跑到河边才坐下来吃苹果。

威尔告诉我，他15岁，住在亨里街。他的父亲是约翰·莎士比亚，他有一个妹妹琼和两个弟弟，吉尔伯特和理查。我后来听说他还有一位姐姐死了。第二年他又添了一个弟弟——全家的宝贝小埃德蒙。

“那么你呢？”他问道。

“家里只有我和姐姐，”我说，“父母死后我们住在舅舅家。他是埃利街的一个鞋匠，我为他打工。你现在干什么？”

“我在教堂街詹金斯先生的学校念书，”威尔说，“每天从上午7点到下午5点上学，当然不包括星期天。”

我真为他难过。“这难道不乏味吗？”我问道。

“偶尔有这种感觉，不过通常觉得不错。”他仰身躺下，头枕着双手，“在学校，我们不得不学习所有那些拉丁作家的作品。可我想阅读现代作家和英国作家的作品，比如杰弗利·乔叟。你会看书吗？”他问道。

“当然会啦！”我说，“我上过学。”

威尔坐起来又吃了一个苹果。“我想成为作家，”他继续说道，“诗人。世上再没有比这更令我神往的了。”

自那天起我们就成了朋友，直到他过世。我们几乎每天见面，他教了我许多关于书本、诗歌和作家的知识。他总是埋头博览群书。

威尔离开学校后就在亨里街帮助父亲料理生意。约翰·莎士比亚是一位手套工匠，同时经营其他生意，如买卖羊只。但威尔对做生意却不感兴趣。

“托比，接下来你有何打算？”有一天他问我。“我们不能一辈子都做鞋和手套吧！”

“对呀，”我说，“我们跑到海上当水手去，像弗朗西斯·杜雷克一样环绕地球航行。”

杜雷克在完成历时三年的环绕地球航行后于1581年回到普利茅斯，可我们还是待在斯特拉福镇。尽管也制定了种种计划，但始终未付诸行动。

这段时间威尔依然博览群书并开始写诗，偶尔还给我看他写的诗。虽然嘴上我都说他的诗写得好，实际上我对诗歌是一窍不通。只不过他是我的好友我才这么说。

威尔对自己的诗歌并不满意。“托比，我要学的东西太多了。”他说，“实在太多了。”

可怜的威尔。他还得学会了解女人。1582年10月的一天他来到我的住处，神情忧郁。

“我永远不能离开斯特拉福镇了。”他说。

“为什么不能？”我问道，“总有一天我们会离开此地。你等着瞧。”

“或许你还行，”他说，“但过几个星期我就要结婚了。同安·哈瑟维结婚。”

一听此言我张着嘴愣了好久。“结婚。同安·哈瑟维结婚？你是说肖特雷邻乡哈瑟维家的女儿？”

“没错。”威尔说。当时我在做鞋，威尔拿起桌上一只鞋，看看。

“当然，嗯，她是个好姑娘，”我不自在地说道，“不过……不过，威尔，她已经26岁了，你才18岁呀！”

“我知道，”威尔说，“但是我非娶她不可。”

“哦，不！”我说，“你的意思是，她已经……”

“你猜对了，”威尔说道，“再过6个月我就要当爸爸了。”





3The actors come to town


The actors come to town

Will married Anne Hathaway in November, and she came to live in Henley Street. John Shakespeare was pleased that his oldest son was married, but I don't think Will's mother wanted him to marry so young. Families cost a lot of money, and John Shakespeare was having a lot of money troubles in those days. Times were hard in Henley Street.

Susanna was born the next May. All babies look the same to me, but Will was very pleased with her.

'Look, Toby, she's got my eyes,' he said happily. 'She's going to be as beautiful as the Queen of Egypt, and as clever as King Solomon.'

'Oh yes?' I said. 'All parents talk like that about their children. I don't believe a word of it.'

I didn't see much of Will's wife. I knew she didn't like me. To her, I was one of Will's wild friends, who got him into trouble. She came from a very serious, Puritan family. Lots of church-going, and no singing or dancing.

Soon there was another baby on the way, and one evening in February 1585 I hurried round to Henley Street to hear the news. Will's sister, Joan, opened the door, and then Will came running down the stairs.

'It's two of them!' he said. 'Twins! A girl and a boy. Isn't that wonderful!'

Will had some good friends, Hamnet and Judith Sadler, and he called the twins after them. John Shakespeare was very pleased to have his first grandson, and everyone was happy. For a while.

Will and I still went around together when we could. He was still reading, and writing, and soon I could see a change in him. He was twenty-three now, and he was not happy with his life.

'Stratford's too small, Toby,' he said. 'Too slow. Too quiet. Too boring. I've got to get away.'

'Yes, but how?' I asked. 'You've got a family—three young children, remember.'

He didn't answer.

In the summer months companies of players often came to small towns, and in 1587 five different companies came. Will and I always went to see the plays. Will loved to talk to the actors and to listen to all their stories of London.

The Queen's Men came to Stratford in June, and we went to see the play. I don't remember what it was. I know that I laughed a lot, and that Will said it was a stupid play, with not a word of poetry in it.

'Why don't you write a play yourself?' I told him.

'Write a play?' He laughed. 'Anne would never speak to me again.'

I didn't say anything, and Will looked at me and laughed again.

It happened a few months later. I walked into the Shakespeares' kitchen one evening, and there was Anne, with a red, angry face, shouting at the top of her voice.

'How can you do this to me? And what about the children?' Then she saw me and stopped.

Will was sitting at the table, and looked pleased to see me. 'I've told Anne,' he said quietly, 'that I'm going to live in London. I want to be an actor, and to write plays, if I can.'

'Plays!' screamed Anne. 'Acting! Actors are dirty, wicked people! They're all thieves and criminals! They drink all day and they never go to church—'

'Don't be stupid, Anne. You know that's not true. Listen. I'll come home when I can, but I must go to London. I can't do anything in Stratford.' He looked at me across the room. 'Are you coming with me, Toby?'

'How soon can we start?' I said.

actor n. a man who acts a part in a play. 演员。

trouble n. difficulty. 困难。

wild adj. 粗野的。

serious adj. (esp. of a person's manner or character) thoughtful; solemn not gay or cheerful. （尤指人之态度或性格）严肃的，严谨的。

twin n. either of 2 children born of the same mother at the same time. 双胞胎。

wonderful adj. 绝妙的。

grandson n. 孙子，外孙。

change n. the act or result of changing. 改变。

company n. a group of actors who work together. 伙伴，伴侣。

stupid adj. silly or foolish, either generally or in a action. 呆笨的，傻的。

poetry n. quality of beauty, grace, and deep feeling. 诗意，诗情。

at the top of one's voice 高声。

scream v. to make a loud noise of anger (complaint, demand, etc.). 高声表示愤怒（不平，要求等）。

wicked adj. very bad; evil. 坏透的，险恶的。

criminal n. a person who is guilty of crime. 罪犯。

across prep. to or on the opposite side (of). 到对面；在对面。





3 　演员来到镇上


11月威尔和安·哈瑟维结婚了，安住进了亨里街。约翰·莎士比亚见长子成家心里很高兴，可我觉得威尔的母亲并不想他这么早就结婚。结婚花了家里不少钱，再加上约翰·莎士比亚那段时间财运不济，日子过得有点艰难。

次年5月苏姗娜出世。对我来说，所有的孩子都没什么不一样，但威尔欣喜若狂。

“托比，你瞧，她的眼睛长得真像我，”他高兴地说着，“长大后，她会美丽如埃及艳后，聪明如所罗门国王。”

“是吗？”我说，“所有父母都是这么说自己的孩子。我一个字也不信。”

我不常见到威尔夫人，也清楚她不喜欢我。对她而言，我是威尔的一个粗野朋友，这种朋友只会让他出麻烦。她出生于一个虔诚的清教徒家庭，经常去教堂，从来不唱歌、跳舞。

不久，又一个孩子要出世了。1585年2月的一个夜晚我急匆匆地赶到亨里街去打听消息。威尔的妹妹琼为我开了门，接着就见威尔跑下楼梯。

“一胎两个呢！”他说道，“是双胞胎！一女一男。真是妙极了！”

威尔根据好友哈姆奈特和珠迪丝·塞德勒的名字给孪生子女起了名。约翰·莎士比亚见第一个孙子出世，由衷地高兴。有一段时间，每一个人都很快乐。

只要有机会威尔和我仍然经常来往，他依然读书写作，但是不久，我发现他变了。当时他23岁，但对生活不再知足。

“托比，斯特拉福镇实在太小了，”他说道，“发展缓慢，生活安静，日子又单调，我必须离开这里。”

“是啊，可怎么离开呢？”我问道，“别忘了，你已经成家——还有三个孩子。”

他没有答话。

夏天经常有剧团到小镇巡回演出，1587年分别来了五个剧团。威尔和我总是结伴去看戏。威尔爱找演员们交谈，听他们讲发生在伦敦的故事。

6月“女王剧团”来到斯特拉福镇，我们又去看戏。这出戏的内容我已记不清楚，只记得当时看了开怀大笑，但是威尔说这戏很糟糕，没有一句像样的诗歌。

“那你为什么不自己动手写剧本呢？”我告诉他。

“写剧本？”他大笑，“安会再也不理我的。”

我不再说什么，威尔看看我又笑了。

几个月后事情就发生了。一天晚上我走进莎士比亚家的厨房，只见安涨红着脸，气呼呼地，她高声嚷着：

“你怎么能这样对我？孩子怎么办？”这时她瞧见我就将话止住了。

威尔坐在桌旁，见我来很高兴。“我已经告诉安了。”他平静地说道，“我打算到伦敦去谋生。我想当一名演员，如果行的话，写写剧本。”

“写剧本！”安尖声叫起来，“去演戏！演员是肮脏卑劣的人。他们都是小偷和罪犯！整天只知道喝酒行乐，也从来不去教堂——”

“别犯傻了，安。你知道事实并不是这样。听着，一有机会我就回家探望，但我非去伦敦不可。待在斯特拉福镇我不会有作为的。”他看了看房间对面的我，“托比，你想一起去吗？”

“什么时候动身？”我说道。





4A new life in London


A new life in London

It's two days' journey to London by horse, and Will talked all the way. His eyes were bright and excited. He was full of plans, and poems, and a love of life.

'I talked to one of the Queen's Men,' he told me. 'He said that he could find me work in the theatre. Acting, perhaps. Or helping to write some plays. I showed him some of my writing, and he was very interested.'

When we rode into London, I began to feel afraid. This was a big, big city, and we were just two unimportant young men from a small town. I'll never forget the noise, and the smells, and the crowds. There were 200,000 people living in the City of London—I never saw so many people before in my life.

We went down to the river Thames and saw the famous London Bridge, with all its shops and houses. Down the river was the Tower of London. Enemies of the Queen went into the Tower through the river gate, and mostly came out without their heads.

We found a small inn in Eastcheap, not too expensive, and had some bread, meat, and beer for our supper.

'Well, we're here!' Will said. 'At last!'

'Mmm,' I said. 'What do we do next?'

He laughed. 'Everything!'

The next day we began to look for work.

Those early years were wonderful. We didn't have much money, of course, and we had to work very hard. A new actor only got six shillings a week, and there wasn't work every week. I decided not to be an actor.

'Why not?' said Will. 'It's a great life.'

We were working that month for the Queen's Men at the theatre called The Curtain up in Shoreditch. Will was acting four small parts in two different plays. He played a soldier and a murderer in one play, and in the other play he was a thief, and also an Italian lord in love with the Queen of the Night. And he loved it.

'I'm not clever like you,' I said. 'I can't remember all those words. I forget who I am! I say the soldier's words, when I'm an Italian lord. I come on stage too late, or too soon. I stand in all the wrong places...'

Will laughed. 'What are you going to do, then?'

'Costumes,' I said. 'And properties. I had a talk with John Heminges, and he said they need a new man to help with all the clothes and the other things.'

'Yes,' Will said slowly. 'You'll be good at that. Now, I've got a fight on stage tomorrow, and I have to die with lots of blood. How are you going to get me some blood?'

'I've already got it!' I smiled kindly at him. 'Sheep's blood. I got it down at Smithfield market this morning. You can have as much blood as you want. I'm keeping it warm for you!'

Will was good at acting. Not the best, but good. An actor had to do everything. He had to learn his words, of course— perhaps for six different plays at the same time. No theatre put on the same play every day. He had to dance, and sing, and play music. He had to jump, and fall, and fight. And the fights had to look real. The playgoers of London knew a real fight when they saw one.

John Heminges of the Queen's Men taught us both a lot. He was a good friend, then and for many years.

I had a lot to learn, too. I learnt how to make shoes out of brown paper. How to clean the actors' hats with a bit of bread. Then they looked like new again. I ran all over London to buy the best hair for the wigs. I learnt how to make fish, and fruit, and a piece of meat out of wood and coloured paper.

Will was busy day and night. I don't know when he slept. He was acting in plays, he was writing his own plays, he was reading books, he was meeting other writers, making friends... He was learning, learning, learning.

One day we were having a glass of beer with Richard Burbage at the Boar's Head in Eastcheap. Burbage was an actor with Lord Strange's Men. He was very friendly with Will.

'You've written four plays now, Will,' he said. 'They're good, and you're getting better all the time. And I'm getting better as an actor all the time. Come and work with Lord Strange's Men at the Rose theatre on Bankside. You can write for us.'

So we both went to the Rose. John Heminges came with us, and Augustine Phillips—he was a good actor, too.

We worked harder than ever at the Rose. Plays were always in the afternoon, because of the daylight. We had rehearsals in the morning, and by lunch-time people were already coming across the river to get their places for the play. And more and more people came. By 1592 London was hearing the name William Shakespeare again and again.

ride into 乘（马车）。

crowd n. a large number of people gathered together. 群聚。

Tower of London 伦敦塔。

enemy n. a person who hates or dislikes another person. 敌人。

mostly adv. in the greatest number of cases. 多半地。

inn n. a small hotel or place where one can stay and /or drink alcohol, eat meals etc. 小旅馆；客栈。

expensive adj. 贵的。

Shilling n. a coin in old English money (about 5p in new English money). 先令。

decide v. to make up one's mind. 决心。

soldier n. a member of an army. 士兵。

murderer n. 凶杀犯。

lord n. 勋爵。

costume n. the special clothes that an actor wears. 戏装。

property n. (in a theatre) the things which are needed on stage for a place eg. chairs, tables, boxes, bags, plates, a tree. 道具。

stage n. the part of a theatre where actors stand and move. 舞台。

blood n. 血。

jump v. 跳跃。

real adj. true, not false. 真的。

playgoer n. a person who goes to see plays, esp. regularly. 经常去看戏的人。

brown paper 牛皮纸。

wig n. hair which is not real 假发。

fruit n. 水果。

daylight n. 日光。

rehearsal n. when actors practise a play before they act in front of other people. 排练，预演。





4 　伦敦的新生活


坐了两天的马车之后我们抵达伦敦，一路上威尔谈笑风生，双眼熠熠生辉，此时他踌躇满志，对生活无限热爱。

“我和‘女王剧团’的一个演员聊过天，”他告诉我，“他说可以帮我在剧团找个活干，或许可以演戏，或者让我帮忙写剧本。我给他看过一些我的作品，他很感兴趣。”

我们驱车进入伦敦城时，我开始感到心慌。这是很大、很大的一座城市，而我们只是两个从小镇来的微不足道的小伙子。城市的拥挤、喧嚣掺和着种种气味令我至今记忆犹新。伦敦市内生活着20万居民——我以前从未见过这么多的人。

我们来到了泰晤士河，看到了著名的伦敦桥以及所有的商店和住宅。河下游便是伦敦塔，女王的敌人从河上的闸门进入这座塔，他们中的多数就在此掉了脑袋。

我们在东切普街找到一处不太贵的小客栈住下，晚饭吃了几块面包、肉，喝了点啤酒。

“哇，我们到这儿了！”威尔说道，“终于到了！”

“是啊，”我说，“接下来我们干什么呢？”

他笑道：“什么都干！”

第二天我们便出去找活干。

在伦敦最初几年的情况很好。由于身边钱不多，我们不得不努力工作。因为新演员一星期只能拿到6先令的报酬，更何况并不是每个星期都能上台演出，最后我决定放弃做演员。

“为什么不干呢？”威尔说道，“这种生活不是很好吗。”

那个月我们工作的“女王剧团”正在滨渠街的“窗帘剧院”演出。威尔分别在两出不同的戏中扮演了四个小角色，在一出戏中扮演士兵和凶杀犯，在另一出戏中扮演小偷和一位爱上奈特王后的意大利勋爵。他很喜欢这份工作。

“我不像你那样聪明，”我说，“我总记不住全部的台词。上了台又忘记自己演的角色！当我演意大利勋爵时我竟背出演士兵的台词。上台不是太迟就是太快，还会站错位置。”

威尔笑道，“那你打算怎么办？”

“做戏装，”我说，“还有道具。我和约翰·海明谈过了，他说剧团也正需要添个人手帮着安排戏装和其他事情。”

“那好吧，”威尔慢慢地说道，“你会干好的。对了，明天上台我要参加决斗，并且最后要失血过多而死。你打算怎样弄到血呢？”

“我早准备好啦！”我温和地笑道，“是羊血。今天早上我跑了一趟史密斯菲尔德市场，你要多少血就有多少血。我会替你维持它的温度。”

威尔善于演戏。虽称不上最出色，但已算很好的了。演员事事都得干。最起码得学会背台词——有可能同时得背六出不同的戏的台词，因为戏院并非每天上演同一出戏。演员还得会演奏，得能歌善舞，还要跳跃，摔跤和决斗。决斗必须看起来像真的一样，否则伦敦的戏迷们一眼就可以看出真假。

“女王剧团”的约翰·海明成了我们多年的朋友，他教会我们俩许多东西。

当然我要学的东西很多。我学会了如何用牛皮纸做鞋，学会了用一点面包就能洗掉演员帽子上的污渍，使帽子焕然一新。我要跑遍伦敦买到最好的头发制成假发，还懂得如何用木头和彩色纸做成鱼、水果和肉片。

威尔夜以继日地忙碌，我都不知道他什么时候睡觉。他演戏，写他自己的剧本，看书，接触其他作家，结识新朋友……他一直在学习、学习、再学习。

一天我们在东切普街的公猪头酒吧同理查·白贝芝喝酒。白贝芝是“斯特林奇大臣剧团”的演员，对威尔很友好。

“威尔，你已经创作了四个剧本，”他说道，“剧本写得不错，而且你一直在进步，而我也越演越好。你就到‘斯特林奇大臣剧团’来，在河滨的‘玫瑰剧院’工作吧。你可以为我们写剧本。”

于是我们俩都进了“玫瑰剧院”。一起过来的还有约翰·海明和奥古斯丁·菲利普——他也是个好演员。

在“玫瑰剧院”，我们比以往更加努力工作。由于光线的缘故，演出总是被安排在下午。于是，我们在上午排练，到了吃午饭时，人们已经陆续过河来占位子等候看戏，而且每次来的观众有增无减。时至1592年，威廉·莎士比亚在伦敦已颇具名望。





5The plague years


The plague years

Will wrote his play Richard Ⅲ for Richard Burbage, and it was a great success. Richard the Third was a wicked king—a murderer—but he was wonderful on the stage, with Burbage's great voice and fine acting. Soon all London was saying King Richard's famous words when his horse is killed in war:

A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!

All kinds of people came to see plays and Will was making a lot of new friends. One day, after the play, he was talking to a young man outside the Rose. He was a very beautiful young man, a bit like a girl, perhaps—but still very good-looking. Later, I asked Will who he was.

'The Earl of Southampton,' Will said. 'He's only eighteen, but he loves poetry and plays.'

'Isn't he a friend of the Earl of Essex?' I asked. Everybody knew the Earl of Essex. He was young and good looking —and some people said that Queen Elizabeth was in love with him.

I don't know about that. The Queen was fifty-nine years old, and a very, very clever woman. But it was true that she liked to have good-looking young men around her, and the Earl of Essex was her favourite. Then. It all changed later, of course.

'Yes, he is,' said Will. 'But I think Essex is a dangerous man. Henry needs better friends than him.'

'Henry, eh?' I said, surprised. 'My word! Do you really call him Henry? Not Lord Southampton?'

'Only when other people aren't there.' Will laughed. 'I'm still just an actor from Stratford, Toby. Not very important. Let's go and have a drink at the Boar's Head on our way home.'

Will was always like that. Quiet, never shouting about himself to the world.

In the Boar's Head we met some friends and started talking. The talk was all about the plague, which was coming back again into London.

'Have you heard the latest news?' said one man. 'They say that more than thirty people are dying every week now.'

'And the City Council,' said another man, 'wants to close all the theatres. They always do that when the plague comes to London. There'll be no work for any of us actors.'

'But the players can go on tour, surely?' said Will.

'Yes,' said the first man. 'But it's a hard life. A different town, a different inn, a different play, every night. I think I'll stay in London.'

The plague is terrible in any place, but it was worst in London. In those narrow streets, with houses so close together, and the dirty water running down the middle of the street, there was no escape. When the plague came, it ran like fire through the town. If someone in a house got the plague, then the doors were shut and locked, and a big red cross was put on the door. Nobody could leave the house. You had to stay inside and fight—or die. If you were rich, you left London as fast as you could.

In September 1592 the City Council closed the theatres.

'Are we going on tour, Will?' I said to him one day. 'Or back to Stratford? We can't stay in London.'

'You go back to Stratford, Toby,' he said slowly. 'I'm going to Lord Southampton's home in Hampshire for a while. He's asked me to go and stay with him. I can do some writing there, read his books, meet a few people.'

I looked at him. 'There's a woman in this somewhere, isn't there? You've had a strange look in your eyes for weeks.'

Will laughed, but didn't answer my question.

The theatres in London didn't open again until June 1594. Will often visited Lord Southampton, but sometimes we went on tour with the company, or spent time at home in Stratford. Will began to spend more time in Stratford, because it was quiet there, and he could do his writing. I never heard what Anne thought about it all.

During those years Will wrote a lot of poetry. He wrote his beautiful long poem, Venus and Adonis, for his friend Lord Southampton, and he wrote many of his famous short poems, the Sonnets. But they didn't go in a book; they were only for his friends to read.

One day, when we were back in London, I was reading some of his latest sonnets. Will was out somewhere, and I was at home in our lodgings in Bishopsgate. A lot of the poems were about a woman, a terrible, black-haired, black-eyed woman. She was cold and cruel, then she was true and loving, and then she was cruel again.

For I have sworn thee fair, and thought the bright,

Who art as black as hell, as dark as night.

Was Will writing about himself here? I asked myself. And who was this woman, this Dark Lady?

I always like to know what's going on, so I listened, and watched, and looked at all his women friends.

Then one day I saw her. I was coming in the door at our lodgings, and she was coming downstairs. She had black hair and great stormy black eyes, and there was gold at her ears and round her neck. I stood back and she went past me like a ship sailing into war. She looked wild, and angry, and very, very beautiful.

'Whew!' I said to myself. 'If that's Will's Dark Lady, he'll never have a quiet, easy life!'

The woman looked Italian, so I went and asked John Florio about her. Florio was Lord Southampton's Italian teacher. We saw a lot of him in those days.

I described the woman, and he knew her at once.

'Emilia,' he said. 'Emilia Bassano. Now Emilia Lanier, wife to Alphonso Lanier. Before that, she lived with the old Lord Chamberlain. She was not his wife, you understand. But why do you want to know, my friend?'

'If she's a married lady, she doesn't have a lover now, then?'

Florio laughed loudly. 'Lovers! You don't know Emilia Lanier! She's a bad woman, my friend, a bad woman.' Now he spoke very quietly. 'For a time she was the friend of Lord Southampton. But not now. That is all finished.'

I didn't ask him about Will. Perhaps Emilia Lanier was Will's Dark Lady, or perhaps Will was just trying to help his friend Lord Southampton. Nobody will ever know now.

plague n. a quick-spreading quick-killing disease that produces high fever and swellings on the body 瘟疫。

wicked adj. very bad or wrong. 邪恶的，不道德的。

good-looking adj. attractive; beautiful. 美貌的；漂亮的。

Earl n. 伯爵

around prep. on all sides of; surrounding. 围绕。

favourite n. sth. or someone that is loved above all others. 最喜爱之物或人。

dangerous adj. able to or likely to cause danger. 危险的。

tour n. a journey from place to place as made by a company of actors in order to perform, by an important person to make official visits. 巡回演出（访问等）。

narrow adj. 狭窄的。

dirty water n. 污水。

escape v. (of a person) to avoid (a stated evil). 避免。

inside adv. to or in the house. 在户内。

City Council n. 市政参议会。

until prep. 直到。

Sonnet a 14-line poem with any of several fixed formal patterns of line endings. 十四行诗

lodging n. a house where rooms are rented out. 公寓。

cruel adj. taking pleasure in the pain of another; unkind. 冷酷的。

swear v. (swore. sworn) to curse. 咒骂。

thee pron. (old use). you. （旧用法）汝。

hell n. 地狱。

stormy adj. showing noisy expressions of feeling. 激昂的。

whew 哎呀。

describe v. to give a picture in words. 描述。

lover n. one who lovers another, especially one who feels sexual love. 情人。





5 　瘟疫流行时期


威尔为理查·白贝芝编写了剧本《理查三世》，获得巨大成功。剧中的理查三世是个狡诈的暴君——一个凶手——但白贝芝雄浑的嗓音和精彩的表演使这一形象在舞台上活灵活现。不久全伦敦传遍了在战场上理查王的马被宰时，他的那句名言：

“一匹马！一匹马！我的国家换一匹马！”

形形色色的人慕名来看戏，威尔也因此结交了许多新朋友。一天，演出结束后，我看见在“玫瑰剧院”外他正和一个年轻人交谈。这人年少英俊，或许有点像女孩，不过依然相貌堂堂。后来，我向威尔问起这个人。

“他是索桑普敦伯爵，”威尔说道，“他年仅18岁，但热爱诗歌和戏剧。”

“他是不是爱塞克斯伯爵的朋友？”我问他。爱塞克斯伯爵无人不晓。他年轻英俊——有人说伊丽莎白女王也爱着他。

这件事我倒不清楚。女王年已59岁，是个非常非常聪明的女人。但是女王喜欢年轻的、面目俊俏的男人陪伴左右是千真万确的，而爱塞克斯伯爵最得宠。当然，后来一切都变了。

“是的，”威尔说道，“但我认为爱塞克斯是个危险的人物。亨利需要结交比他更好的朋友。”

“哦，亨利？”我诧异地说道，“真没想到！你真的叫他亨利吗？而不叫索桑普敦伯爵？”

“只有别人不在时才叫的，”威尔笑了起来，“托比，毕竟我还只是从斯特拉福镇来的一个演员而已，无足轻重。我们回去吧，顺便到公猪头酒吧喝一杯。”

威尔这人就是这样，处世稳重，从不对世人标榜自己。

在公猪头酒吧我们遇见几位朋友，便开始聊起天来。话题都是关于伦敦这次卷土重来的瘟疫。

“你是否听说了最新消息？”有人说道，“他们说，现在每星期都有30多人濒临死亡。”

“还听说市政参议会，”又有人说道，“准备关闭所有剧院。每回伦敦流行瘟疫他们都这么做。我们这些演员要失业了。”

“但是我们可以巡回演出，不是吗？”威尔建议道。

“可以，”第一个开口的人说道，“但那样生活很辛苦。我们每晚都要颠沛辗转，不同的村庄、不同的旅社、不同的剧目，我宁愿待在伦敦。”

其实，各地瘟疫都很严重，只不过伦敦尤其厉害。狭窄的街道、拥挤的房屋，街道中心污水横流，人们又怎能幸免。瘟疫如火，势不可挡，迅速传遍全城。一旦哪家有人染上了瘟疫，就被封闭房门，贴上红十字。谁都无法从里面出来，只得待在家里与病魔作斗争——或者等死。如果家境富裕，还是尽早搬离伦敦才为上策。

1592年9月市政参议会封闭了剧院。

“威尔，我们是去巡回演出呢？”有一天我问起他，“还是回斯特拉福镇？伦敦不能久留了。”

“托比，你回斯特拉福镇吧，”他缓缓地说道，“我暂时到汉普郡的索桑普敦勋爵家住一阵。他已经邀我和他同住。在那儿我可以搞搞创作，看看书，会会客人。”

我看着他说道：“此外也多少有点因为一个女人，是吧？几个星期来，你神情总有点怪怪的。”

威尔笑了起来，但没有回答我的问话。

伦敦的剧院到1594年6月才重新开放。威尔常去拜访索桑普敦勋爵，有时我们也随剧团到各地巡回演出，或者待在斯特拉福镇家中。威尔开始花更多的时间待在斯特拉福镇，因为小镇的宁静，他可以安心搞创作。我从没听到安对此作何想法。

这些年间威尔创作了大量的诗歌。他写了绮丽的长诗《维纳斯与阿童尼》献给好友索桑普敦勋爵，而且也创作了许多著名的短诗，十四行诗。但这些诗歌并没有编辑成书，只供朋友赏读。

我们又回到伦敦后的一天，威尔出门去了，我一个人待在“毕晓普门街”的公寓里，翻阅着他最新创作的一些十四行诗。这组诗大都描写一个女人，一个黑头发、黑眼睛的可怕的女人。她性情乖张善变，一会儿冷若冰霜，冷酷无情，一会儿又热情洋溢，真诚多情。

“因为我曾赌咒说你美，说你璀粲，

你却是地狱一般黑，夜一般暗。”

威尔诗中写的是自己吗？我不禁纳闷。这女人是谁？这个黑女人会是谁呢？

我这人总喜欢将事情弄个水落石出。于是我仔细观察他的每位异性朋友。

于是有一天我碰见了她。那天我正走进公寓大门，正巧她下楼。她有一头乌黑的头发，一双烈性的黑眼睛，戴着金耳环，挂着金项链。我往后退几步为她让路，而她犹如一艘奔赴战场的战舰一般走过我身旁。看模样她狂妄不羁，一腔怒气，但确是一个尤物。

“哎呀！”我心里想，“如果这就是威尔诗中的那位黑女人，那他的生活就不得安宁了。”

这女人看上去像意大利人，我便去问约翰·佛罗里欧。佛罗里欧是索桑普敦勋爵的意大利语教师。那些日子我们时常见面。

我把这女子描述了一番，他立即想起来了。

“是埃米莉亚，”他说道，“埃米莉亚·巴塞诺。现在叫埃米莉亚·拉尼尔夫人，阿尔索·拉尼尔的妻子。这之前，她和那个老张伯伦爵士住在一起。你也清楚她不是他的夫人。但我的朋友，你怎么打听起她来了？”

“如果她是有夫之妇，那么现在她没有情人吧？”

佛罗里欧大笑起来。“情人！你还不了解埃米莉亚·拉尼尔的为人吧！我的朋友，她可是个坏女人，一个坏透了的女人。”这时他语气轻缓了下来，“曾有一段时间她是索桑普敦的朋友。不过不是现在，一切都结束了。”

我不再向他打听威尔的情况。或许埃米莉亚·拉尼尔就是威尔的黑女人，或许威尔只是想帮助他的好友索桑普敦勋爵。现在也无从确知了。





6Death in the family


Death in the family

After the plague years, we were busy all the time. There were new companies of players and Will now belonged to the Lord Chamberlain's Men. The Lord Chamberlain was a very important man, close to the Queen, and we often put on plays for the Queen's court, and in the houses of the great lords of England. We had some very good actors. There was Will, and Richard Burbage, of course, and John Heminges. And there was Augustine Phillips, Henry Condell, and Thomas Pope. There were other actors, too, but those six were the real company. They worked together for more than twenty years. And made a lot of money, too.

I did the costumes and properties for the Chamberlain's. John Heminges said I was the best properties man in the city.

Will was special—because he wrote the plays. And what plays they were! He never wrote the same play twice, like some writers. He was always trying something new, something different. And he wrote fast, too.

John Heminges could never understand that. 'How can you write so fast, Will?' he asked him. 'And you never make a mistake or change a word.'

Will didn't really understand it himself. 'It's all in my head,' he said. 'I think about it, and then it just comes out on paper.'

He wrote a play about love in 1595. Young love. It was Romeo and Juliet . It was a very sad play, because the young lovers die at the end. But the playgoers loved it. They wanted to see it again and again.

Will played the part of old Capulet, Juliet's father. One of the boy actors played the part of Juliet. There were no women actors, so boys played all the women's parts. Of course, Will never put real love-making on stage. He did it all with words—clever, beautiful words, and you forgot that the women and girls were really boys in dresses. Some of the boy actors were very good, and went on to play men's parts when they were older.

We played Romeo and Juliet at Richmond Palace that year. We always played before the Queen at Christmas. She liked to see the new plays, and she paid us ￡ 10 a play. We often had to work through the night to get the stage ready in time, but it was exciting to be in one of the Queen's palaces at Christmas. There was a lot of singing and dancing, and eating and drinking. Some years Christmas began in November and didn't finish until February or March.

The year 1596 began well, but that summer the weather was really bad. Cold. Wet. It never stopped raining, and the plague began to come back into London. We were in Stratford for the summer, but I went down to Hampshire for a few weeks to do some business for Will about some sheep. Will didn't need me at home, because he was busy writing his new play, A Midsummer Night's Dream .

I came back to Stratford one wet August evening. The house in Henley Street was strangely quiet, and I went round the back and up to Will's room—his writing room, we called it. He was just sitting there... not doing anything, just sitting.

'What's the matter, Will?' I said. 'Where is everybody?'

'At church.' His face was grey, and his eyes looked empty, dead.

'What's happened?' I asked. 'What is it?'

He looked at me. 'Hamnet...' he began. 'Hamnet was ill last week, and... and he died, yesterday. He was only eleven, Toby, and he's dead. My boy. My only son. He's dead, Toby. Dead.' He put his face in his hands.

What can you say to a man when something like that happens to him? I sat down next to him and put my hand on his arm. We sat together, silently. I knew that Will loved that boy of his—red-haired, bright as a new penny, full of life. Just like his father.

After a while I said, 'You'll have other sons.'

'Anne's forty already.' Will's voice was tired. 'She's had no children since the twins.'

'Well, now, you've got two fine girls in Susanna and Judith. They'll marry before long, and then you'll have more grandsons than you can count. You'll see. There'll be boys running up and down stairs, shouting for their Granddad Will!'

He smiled sadly, but his eyes were not so empty now. Pleased, I went on quickly:

'And there are all your brothers—Gilbert, Richard, Edmund. They'll have sons too. The Shakespeare family will never die out. Think of the family, Will, the family!'

And he did. He was already a famous poet and playwright, but he was a family man, too. The next year, 1597, he bought a new house for his family. It was a big, grand house, called New Place, right in the middle of Stratford. It cost ￡60—a lot of money—and the townspeople began to say 'Mr Shakespeare', not 'Young Will the actor' or 'John Shakespeare's boy'. They were happy to do business with him, and to borrow money from him.

Anne was very pleased with the new house. The wife of Mr Shakespeare of New Place was an important person in Stratford. But she still didn't like Will's work.

'Actors are wild, dangerous people,' she often said to him. 'I'm not interested in plays or the theatre, and I don't want to know anything about your work.'

But she liked the money, and the new house, and the new dresses—and the six fields of apple trees and the big farm north of Stratford that came a few years later.

Will never talked much about Hamnet. Life goes on and Will was busier than ever. But I know he thought about his son a lot; his grief was very deep inside him. A year or two later, I was talking to John Heminges about the costumes for Will's new play, King John . John Heminges was a family man—he had fourteen children in the end. The noise in his house! Shouting and laughing, coming and going...

John was looking at the playbook. 'You see this bit here, Toby,' he said. 'Will's writing about his son, isn't he?'

I read the words slowly, and remembered Will's empty eyes that day in August.

Grief fills the room up of my absent child,

Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me,

Puts on his pretty looks, repeats his words ...

Richard Burbage said once that Will's writing changed after Hamnet's death. Will still laughed at people in his plays, but he also felt sorry for them—sorry for all the world, good and bad, rich and poor, young and old. And his people were real. No one was all good, or all bad.

There was a man called Shylock in his play The Merchant of Venice . This Shylock was a money-lender and a cruel man —everyone hated him. But in the end, when Shylock lost everything, you had to feel sorry for him. He was just a sad old man.

Perhaps Richard was right. And if anyone understood Will, it was Richard Burbage.

belong to be a member of (an organization). 成为（组织）之一员。

chambelain n. an important official appointed to direct the house-keeping affairs of a king or nobleman's court. 国王内侍；贵族管家。

court n. the officials, noblemen, servants, etc. who attend a king or queen. 朝臣。

special adj particularly great or fine. 特别好的。

twice adv. 2 times. 两次。

come out on paper. 跃然纸上。

Romeo and Juliet 罗密欧与朱丽叶。

love-making 渲染情爱。

in dresses 身着女装。

in time 及时。

midsummer n. the middle of summer. 仲夏。

dream n. 梦。

strangely adv. surprisingly. 出奇地。

silently adv. 沉默地。

penny n. 便士。

count v. to say or name the numbers in order. 数。

sadly adv. in a sad manner. 伤心地。

playwright n. a writer of plays. 剧作家。

grand adj. splendid in appearance. 宏伟的。

"New Place" “新地方”。

field n. a stretch of land on farm marked off in some way or surrounded by a fence or wall, and used for animals or crops. 田地。

grief n. the feeling when you are very, very sorry and unhappy about something. 悲伤，痛苦，不幸。

absent adj. not in existence. 不存在的。

merchant n. a person who buys and sells goods esp. in large amounts in foreign countries. 商人（尤指与外国人做大批生意者）。

Venice 威尼斯。

money-lender n. a person who lends money, and charges interest on it. 放贷者。





6 　幼子夭折


瘟疫流行过后的几年，我们一直忙个不停。市里又有了几家新剧团，如今威尔属于“宫内大臣剧团”。宫内大臣身居要职，与女王关系亲密。这样一来，我们经常有机会被召进女王的宫廷演戏，或者到英国达官显贵的府邸演戏。我们剧团不乏出色的演员。其中有威尔，理查·白贝芝，约翰·海明，奥古斯丁·菲利普斯，亨利·康德尔和托马斯·蒲伯。当然还有其他演员，只是这六个人是剧团的台柱。他们已经一起合作了20多年，也赚了不少的钱。

我仍为“宫内大臣剧团”做戏装和道具。约翰·海明说我是伦敦市里最出色的道具师。

威尔就不同凡响了——因为他会创作剧本。而且写出的剧本让人叫绝！他总能标新立异，与众不同，笔头又快，而且从不像有些作家那样创作雷同的剧本。

约翰·海明一直感到纳闷。“威尔，你怎会写得这么快？”他问道，“并且你从未出过差错，也从不修改。”

说实在的，威尔自己也说不清楚。“一切都已在我的头脑里。”他说，“我一想到，它们立刻就能跃然纸上。”

1595年他创作了一部爱情剧，讲述一对年轻的恋人，这就是《罗密欧与朱丽叶》。这是一出非常凄艳动人的悲剧，因为最终这对年轻的恋人双双殉情而死。该剧广受欢迎，观众百看不厌。

剧中威尔扮演朱丽叶的父亲老凯布。女主角朱丽叶由剧团一位少年扮演。因为当时没有女演员，所以剧中所有的女角色都由少年来扮演。当然，威尔在舞台上对情爱并没有多加渲染，都是通过台词——优美生动的台词使你置身于剧中而忘了台上女角色实际上是身着女装的少年。有些少年演员演技很好，年长后可继续上台扮演男角。

那年我们在里士满宫上演了《罗密欧与朱丽叶》。每逢圣诞节，我们常在女王御前演出。她爱看新剧，而且一出剧付我们10英镑。为了能将舞台及时搭好，我们经常得通宵达旦地工作，但圣诞节时能在女王宫廷内演出倒让人感觉是一件兴奋的事。宫廷内载歌载舞，大摆宴席，觥筹交错。有几年圣诞节11月便开始，一直热闹到次年二三月才结束。

1596年初风调雨顺，不料夏天天气很糟，潮湿阴冷，又遇连绵大雨，伦敦的瘟疫卷土重来，于是我们回到斯特拉福镇过夏天。威尔家中一时用不着我帮忙，当时他正忙于编写一部新剧本——《仲夏夜之梦》，于是我有几个星期去了汉普郡帮威尔料理羊毛生意。

八月的一个雨夜，我回到斯特拉福镇。亨里街的宅邸出奇地静，我便绕到后门径直到了威尔的房间——他的“写作室”，我们这样称呼。他正坐在那里，一动不动地只是呆坐着。

“出了什么事，威尔？”我问道，“其他人呢？”

“在教堂。”他脸色苍白，眼睛茫然呆滞。

“发生什么事了？”我问道，“到底怎么了？”

他望着我。“哈姆奈特……”，他开口说道，“上星期哈姆奈特病倒了，他……他昨天死了。他才11岁呀，托比，他死了。我的孩子。我唯一的儿子。托比，他死了，死了。”他双手掩面哭了。

发生这样的事你又能说什么来安慰他呢？我挨着他坐下，把手放在他的胳膊上，就这样并排静静地坐着。我知道威尔很疼爱这个儿子——他长着红色的头发，像一枚崭新的一便士硬币一样光彩夺目、生气勃勃，很像他父亲。

稍过片刻我说道：“你还会有儿子的。”

“安都40岁了，”威尔说这话时，声音充满倦怠，“自孪生子以后，她就没生孩子。”

“好啦，不用愁的，你还有两个可爱的女儿苏姗娜和珠迪丝。她们很快就会结婚的，然后，你就有数不清的外孙了。你瞧，到时，这些外孙们会在楼梯上跑上跑下围着你，亲热地叫他们的威尔外公。”

他戚戚地笑了一下，不过现在他的眼神不再那么茫然了。我心中一喜，顺势说道：

“你还有兄弟——吉尔伯特、理查和埃德蒙。他们也会有儿子的。莎士比亚家族绝不会无后的。想想整个家族吧，威尔，整个家族！”

他的确振作起来。尽管他已成为颇具名望的诗人和剧作家，但他也是一个关心家庭的人。翌年1597年，他为家庭购置了一座新住宅。这座叫作“新地方”的住宅就在斯特拉福镇中心，规模庞大且富丽堂皇，花了60英镑——一笔数目可观的钱——于是镇上的居民开始改口称他“莎士比亚先生”而不再叫“小威尔戏子”或“约翰·莎士比亚的儿子”，而且也乐意同他做生意，向他借钱。

安很高兴住进新房子。“新地方”莎士比亚先生的夫人，在斯特拉福镇自然算是一个体面人物，不过她依然不喜欢威尔从事的工作。

“演员都是些粗野、危险的人。”她常对他这么说，“对戏剧和戏院我毫无兴趣，对你干的事也懒得知道。”

她感兴趣的只是钱、新房子、新衣服——以及几年后买下的六座苹果园和斯特拉福镇北部的大农场。

威尔不再多提哈姆奈特，日子照样周而复始，威尔比以往更忙碌。但我知道他很怀念儿子，只不过把悲痛深埋在心里。一两年后，有一次我与约翰·海明商谈威尔的新剧本——《约翰王》的服装。约翰·海明是个家庭型的男人——他共有14个孩子。孩子们在家又叫又笑，东奔西跑，家里热闹得不得了……

约翰正在翻阅剧本。“托比，你瞧这段话，”他说道，“威尔分明在写他的儿子，是吗？”

我细细地回味这段话，眼前又浮现出八月那天威尔一双失神的眼睛。

“悲哀填满了我那不在跟前的孩子的房间。

躺在他的床上，陪着我到东到西，

装扮出他美妙的神情，复述着他的言语……”

理查·白贝芝也曾讲过，哈姆奈特死后，威尔的创作风格迥然不同。威尔照样在剧本上讥讽世人，但也对人们寄予无限的同情——同情全世界的人，不论好与坏、贫与富、长与幼。他塑造的人物是真实的。没有十全十美的好人，也没有十恶不赦的坏人。

《威尼斯商人》一剧就是最好的例证。剧中的夏洛克是个冷酷无情的放高利贷的人——每个人都憎恨他，但故事最终，当夏洛克倾家荡产之后，你又不得不起恻隐之心。他毕竟只是个可悲的老头。

或许理查说得对。要说世上还有谁了解威尔，也就是理查·白贝芝了。





7Queens, Kings, and Princes


Queens, Kings, and Princes

Every year we took more and more plays to court at Christmas. In 1598 one of Will's plays was Henry Ⅳ . A lot of the play was about the King's son and his friend, Sir John Falstaff. Sir John was old, fat, lazy, drank too much, talked too much, laughed too much. But you had to love him. He was a great favourite with the London playgoers, and there were a lot of Falstaff jokes going round at the time.

After the play, the Queen wanted to speak to Will.

'Why? What have we done wrong?' John Heminges said to me in a very quiet voice.

'We'll find out in a minute,' I said.

We all watched while Will walked over to the Queen's chair. She was an old woman, she wore a red wig, and she had black teeth. But she was still a very great queen. And if the Queen was not pleased...

She had a good, strong voice—an actor's voice. We could hear her easily.

'Mr Shakespeare,' she began. Then she smiled, and suddenly you knew why all Englishmen loved the Queen. It was like the sun coming out on a spring morning.

'Mr Shakespeare, you are the best playwright in England. I enjoyed your play, and I thought that Sir John Falstaff was very funny. I have known many Englishmen like him. Will you write me another play? I would like to see Sir John in love.'

When Will came back to us, his eyes were bright, but he was already thinking about it.

'Don't talk to me,' he said. 'I've got a play to write.'

He wrote it in two weeks, and we took it down to Richmond Palace and played it before the Queen on February the 20th. She laughed and laughed at The Merry Wives of Windsor .

She didn't have much to laugh about in 1599. There was a lot of trouble in Ireland, and the Queen sent the Earl of Essex with 20,000 men to fight a war. Lord Southampton, Will's friend, went with him. All London came out on to the streets to watch when Essex and his men left for Ireland. Will wrote an exciting play about war that summer, and he put in a word or two about Ireland. That was Henry Ⅴ , about a very famous English King who fought a war in France.

But Essex was not Henry the Fifth. He didn't know how to fight a war, and he ran away back to England later that year. The Queen never spoke to him again.

In September we opened the Globe theatre. It was a grand, new building near the Rose. Will, Richard Burbage, and the others paid for it themselves. It was the best playhouse in London, and soon the most famous. The other companies had good theatres and some good actors, but we had the famous Richard Burbage—and the best plays.

We put on three new plays by Will in the next year, and some plays by other writers. One of the new playwrights was Ben Jonson. He was a clever man and he wrote clever plays, but people still liked Will's plays best. Ben couldn't understand it. He was always arguing with Will about how to write plays. He argued with everyone. He went to prison once because he killed a man in a fight. He was eight years younger than Will, but he and Will were very good friends.

Will's next play was Hamlet , Prince of Denmark . We all met one day in the Boar's Head to talk about it. There were six of us—me and Will, Richard Burbage, Henry Condell, John Heminges, and Augustine Phillips.

Will put his pile of papers on the table and sat down.

'Well,' he said. 'You've all read it. What do you think?'

'It's very good,' John Heminges began, 'but it's too long. It'll take about four hours in the theatre.'

'We don't have to use it all,' Will said. 'We can cut it down to three hours, perhaps two and a half.'

Henry Condell picked up one of the papers from the table. 'Look at this bit, when Ophelia is talking about Hamlet,' he said. 'Hamlet sounds like the Earl of Essex to me. Were you thinking of Essex when you wrote this?'

Will smiled. 'Perhaps,' he said. 'And perhaps not.'

'Richard will play Prince Hamlet, yes?' said Augustine.

'Of course!' Will said. 'I wrote the part for him. He's our star actor. I'll play the ghost of Hamlet's father.' He looked at me. 'Hamlet will wear black, Toby, and Ophelia will wear white.'

Henry finished his beer. 'It's a good story, Will, with good parts for us all. But will the playgoers like it? It moves very slowly, and they like a play to be fast and exciting. Prince Hamlet knows that his uncle Claudius murdered the king his father. But he doesn't do anything about it for a long time. He just talks about it. And in the end nearly everybody dies, one way or another.'

Augustine didn't agree with that. 'You haven't understood the play, Henry. It is exciting, very exciting. The play is inside Hamlet himself. He wants to kill his uncle, but he can't. Murder is wrong. But he must kill him, because of his father. We can all understand how he feels.'

All this time Richard Burbage was silent. He was reading bits of the play again. Now he put down the paper in his hand and looked up. His eyes were bright, excited.

'Have any of you really listened to the language of this play? This is your best play yet, Will—the best of them all. Just listen to the language, the poetry!' He stood up, and his great voice filled the room.

To be, or not to be—that is the question ...

We sat and listened, silently, while that wonderful voice brought the words to life. Will watched him, smiling. He knew that Richard, like him, was in love with words.

... To die, to sleep—

To sleep— perchance to dream. Ay, there's the rub.

For in that sleep of death what dreams may come

When we have shuffled off this mortal coil

Must give us pause.

Richard Burbage was right, of course. The people loved the play, they loved Burbage as Hamlet, they cried for poor Ophelia's death, and they shouted for the murderer Claudius to die. I think it was Will's most famous play.

Sir n. (a title used before the name of a knight or Baronet). （冠于男爵或男爵姓名之前的尊称）爵士。

lazy adj. disliking and avoiding activity or work. 懒惰的。

in a minute 一会儿。

wear v. (wore, worn) to have (esp. clothes) an the body. 穿；戴。

funny adj. amusing; causing laughter. 有趣可笑的。

Ireland n. 爱尔兰。

fight a war 征战。

leave for 离开去（某地）。

argue v. to disagree in words; fight with words. 争论。

Denmark 丹麦。

pile n. (infml) a lot （非正式）一大堆。

cut it down 删减。

ghost n. (the spirit of) a dead person who appears again. 幽灵。

murder v. to kill someone on purpose. 谋害。

agree with 同意。

feel v. to (be able to) experience sensations. 感觉。

be in love with sth. 迷恋某事。

perchance adv. perhaps. 也许。

rub n. the difficulty or cause of trouble （in the phr. 用于There's the rub 短语中）困难；障碍。

shuffle v. to walk by dragging slowly along. 曳（足）。

mortal adj. of human beings. 人生的。

coil n. 盘绕物。

pause n. a short but noticeable break (in activity). 停顿。





7 　女王、国王和王子们


每年圣诞节我们要安排愈来愈多的戏剧进宫演出。1598年上演了威尔的一部历史剧《亨利四世》。剧中大多描写亨利四世之子和他的朋友约翰·福斯泰夫爵士两人。约翰爵士已是垂暮之年，身体肥胖，游手好闲，只会酗酒聊天、寻欢作乐，但这个角色挺招人喜欢。他一度成为最受伦敦戏迷欢迎的人物，那时街头巷尾到处流传着关于福斯泰夫的种种笑料。

演完戏后，女王传令召见威尔。

“怎么啦？我们是否做错事啦？”约翰·海明轻声问我。

“我们一会儿就知道了。”我说道。

我们目不转睛地看着威尔走到女王的座椅前。女王年事已高，戴着红色假发，一口黑齿，但她仍旧是一个伟大的女王。如果女王一不高兴……

女王天生一副演员般的好嗓子，铿锵有力，我们可以很容易地听到她讲话。

“莎士比亚先生，”她开口说道，接着启齿一笑，这微笑犹如春天早晨的旭日，我恍然明白，为什么全英国人民如此爱戴女王。

“莎士比亚先生，你的确是英国最杰出的剧作家，我非常欣赏你这部戏剧。我觉得剧中的约翰·福斯泰夫非常滑稽诙谐，我认识不少这样的英国人。你能否为我另外写一部喜剧？我想看看福斯泰夫谈情说爱。”

威尔回到了我们身边，双眼闪闪发亮，看得出他已在构思了。

“暂且别来找我说话，”他说道，“我得着手写一部戏。”

两星期后他就把剧本赶写了出来。2月20日我们便到里士满宫为女王演出此剧《温莎的风流娘儿们》，逗得女王开怀大笑。

但1599年就没多少事能令她开心了。爱尔兰经常发生动乱，女王派遣爱塞克斯伯爵率兵2万去征战，随同出征的还有威尔的好友索桑普敦勋爵。当爱塞克斯率兵出征爱尔兰时，所有的伦敦市民都走上街头夹道欢送。那年夏天，威尔写了一部关于战争的鼓舞斗志的历史剧《亨利五世》，其中有一两处提到了爱尔兰的动乱。这部历史剧描绘了一位在法国征战的功名显赫的英国君主的形象。

爱塞克斯毕竟不是亨利五世，他压根儿不懂如何作战，不久就逃回英国，女王也从此不再理他。

9月我们开放“环球剧院”。这座富丽堂皇的新剧院紧邻“玫瑰剧院”，由威尔、理查·白贝芝和其他股东出资建成，是伦敦当时最好的一座剧院，不久就成为最负盛名的剧院。尽管其他剧团的剧院设备和演员配备都不错，但是我们有著名的理查·白贝芝和最好的剧本。

第二年我们上演了威尔的三部新剧本和其他剧作家创作的一些剧本。其中一位剧作家就是刚出道的本·琼生。这人机智聪明，剧本也写得好，但人们还是最推崇威尔的作品。本不能理解这一点，他时常和威尔就如何创作剧本而争论不休，不过这人就爱与别人辩论。有一次他因决斗杀了人，蹲了监狱。他比威尔小八岁，但两人是很好的朋友。

威尔的又一部剧是《丹麦王子哈姆雷特》。一天，我、威尔、理查·白贝芝、亨利·康德尔、约翰·海明和奥古斯丁·菲利普六个人一起聚在公猪头酒吧讨论剧本。

威尔将那堆手稿放在桌上，坐了下来。

“好吧，”他说，“剧本大家都看了，谈谈看法吧？”

“内容很好，”约翰·海明带头说道，“不过剧情太长，在剧院上演要演四个多小时。”

“我们并不需要全部剧情，”威尔说，“我们可以将剧本删减到三个小时，或者两个半小时也行。”

亨利·康德尔从桌上拿起一张手稿：“看这一段，奥菲莉亚谈论哈姆雷特，”他说道，“我感觉剧中的哈姆雷特酷似爱塞克斯伯爵。你在写这段时是否想到爱塞克斯呢？”

威尔笑了起来。“或许有，”他说道，“或许没有。”

“理查扮演哈姆雷特王子，对吧？”奥古斯丁说。

“那当然啦！”威尔说道，“这个角色专为他而写的。他是我们剧团的明星。我将扮演哈姆雷特父亲的幽灵。”他看看我，又说，“托比，哈姆雷特要穿黑衣服，而奥菲莉亚要穿白色的衣服。”

亨利喝干了啤酒。“这故事不错，威尔，对所有的人来说都不错。不过，剧情进展太慢，观众会喜欢吗？他们喜欢剧情进展快而令人振奋的戏剧。哈姆雷特王子明知道叔父克劳迪厄斯杀了他的父王，但他长时间只是用空话泄气，却没有采取任何行动，再说故事最终人物几乎都这样或那样地死去了。”

奥古斯丁并不同意这看法。“亨利，你还未真正理解这部戏，它会令人振奋不已的。这部戏就在于哈姆雷特的内心活动。他想杀死叔父，但却不能。谋杀是罪恶的，可他为了父王又必须杀死他。我们完全可以理解他的感受。”

理查·白贝芝一直一言不发。他重新看了看剧本的部分章节，然后放下手中的稿纸，抬起头，双眼奕奕放光、洋溢着兴奋之情。

“你们当中有谁真正领会剧中的语言呢？威尔，这是你写的最好的剧本了——所有戏剧中最好的一部。听听剧中的语言，剧中的诗歌吧！”他站起来，顿时整个房间回荡起他雄厚的嗓音。

“活着还是死亡，这是个问题……”

我们默默地坐着，倾听那绝妙的声音将纸上的文字赋予了生命。威尔望着他，会意地微笑着。他 知道，只有理查能如他一样，深深地迷恋着语言的妙处。

“……死亡，就是睡眠——

睡眠——也许要做梦，这就麻烦了。

我们摆脱了尘世的牵缠，

在死的睡眠里，会做些什么梦呢？

一想到就不能不踌躇。”

理查真的说对了。观众迷上了这部悲剧，他们迷上了白贝芝扮演的哈姆雷特，他们为可怜的奥菲莉亚的死而哭泣，他们怒吼着让凶手克劳迪厄斯死去。我认为这的确是威尔最负盛名的戏剧。





8A Scottish King for England


A Scottish King for England

Will's father died in September 1601. In his last years John Shakespeare was a happy man. His son was famous, and the Shakespeare family was important again in Stratford. But there weren't many children in the family. Will's sister Joan was married and had a little boy, but Will's brothers didn't have any children.

Susanna, Will's older daughter, was now eighteen, and Will said to her one day:

'We must find you a husband soon, Susanna.'

But Susanna shook her head. 'Oh, I don't want to be married, Father, thank you.'

We all smiled at that, because there was already a young man who was often a visitor at New Place. That was John Hall, a clever young doctor. Will liked him.

Back in London, the theatres were always full, and actors were now important people in the city. Will and I were now living in very fine lodgings in Silver Street, with the Mountjoy family. The Globe and the Lord Chamberlain's Men were doing very well, and the older actors in the company were making money, and buying houses and land. But some people still thought that actors were dangerous, wicked people.

Then Queen Elizabeth died, on the 24th of March 1603, at Richmond. I remember the day well. The theatres were closed —you can't have plays when a queen is dying—and we were all at Henry Condell's house. He and John Heminges lived very near our lodgings in Cripplegate.

We were all very worried. The new King of England was James the First. He was already King of Scotland, and he had a young wife, Queen Anne of Denmark, and three young children. But what was he like? Would he be a good king? And, most importantly, did he like plays?

'If King James doesn't like plays,' said Henry Condell, 'we're finished. There are already a lot of Puritans on the London City Council, and they'd love to close the theatres down.'

Henry always looked at the black side of everything.

'Well, he's written a lot of books himself,' said Will. 'Perhaps he'll be interested in plays, too. We'll just have to wait and see.'

We didn't have to wait long. On the 19th of May I was underneath the stage in the Globe. I was trying to mend a broken door in the floor of the stage. We used this door when a ghost came on or went off in a cloud of smoke. Suddenly, I heard feet running across the stage. I looked up through the hole, and saw Will and John Heminges and Richard Burbage. They were all very excited.

'Listen to this, Toby,' said Will. He was holding a piece of paper in his hand. 'It's a letter from King James! From today, we are the King's Men! We're working for the King himself, and he wants to see all the plays.'

'We're going to have new red coats to wear when we go to court,' Richard said.

'And,' John said, 'he's going to pay us ￡20 for every play at court. What do you think about that, Toby?'

We were all laughing and smiling now. 'Well, John,' I said. 'If we're so rich, can I have a new door? I can't mend this one again—it's too old.'

That summer the plague came back. By July a thousand people were dying every week in London. One of them was the little son of Will's friend, Ben Jonson. By the end of the year there were 33,000 dead in England. The theatres closed, and the King's Men went on tour.

Will and I spent the summer at Stratford. When Christmas came, the King's Men put on a lot of plays at court. The King was at Hampton Court Palace that year, which was outside London, well away from the plague. I couldn't go because I fell off my horse one day and broke my leg. Stupid thing to do! I had to stay at home, but Will told me all about it when he came back.

'The new King and Queen like to enjoy themselves, Toby,' he said. 'They're a happy family. Prince Henry, who's nine, is very a nice little boy, and his sister Elizabeth is beautiful. Little Prince Charles is only two.' He was silent for a minute. Perhaps he was thinking about Hamnet. Then he went on, 'Queen Anne likes plays very much. She likes music and dancing, too—she showed her legs in one dance!'

'My word!' I said. 'Things like that never happened at court in Queen Elizabeth's days.'

'We live in different times, Toby. A lot of things are going to change.'

But change only comes slowly. The King's Men went from one success to another. At the King's court at Christmas 1604, there were twenty-two plays, and eight of them were Will's. In 1605 there were thirteen plays at court—and ten of them were Will's.

We always did the plays at the Globe first, before we took them to court. Will was writing more slowly now, but during these years he wrote some of his best plays: Othello , Macbeth , and King Lear . That was a sad, dark play. When King Lear carried his dead daughter Cordelia on to the stage... Well, every man, woman, and child in the Globe was crying. It's true. Richard Burbage played Lear, of course. What an actor he was!

Scottish adj. 苏格兰的。

shake one's head 摇头。

silver n. 银子。

Scotland n. 苏格兰。

the black side of everything 事物的阴暗面。

underneath prep. under (something). 在……下面。

mend v. to repair (a hole, break, etc.) in (something). 修补。

a cloud of smoke 一团烟雾

by the end of the year 到年底。

fall off v. （从……）跌落。

break one's leg 摔断了某人的腿。

My word! (an expression of surprise). 我的天呀！（表惊讶）。

times n. a period in history 时代。

success n. a person or thing that succeeds or has succeeded. 成功之人或事物。

carry v. to bear (someone or something) in one's arms. 抱着。





8 　苏格兰来的英国国王


1601年9月威尔的父亲过世了。约翰·莎士比亚安然愉快地度过了生命的最后几年。他的儿子出了名，自然莎士比亚家族在斯特拉福镇又风光起来。只是这个家族子嗣不多，威尔的妹妹琼结婚后只生了一个小男孩，而威尔的几个兄弟都后继无人。

如今，威尔的大女儿，苏姗娜已是一个十八岁的大姑娘。一天，威尔问她：

“苏姗娜，我们很快该给你物色丈夫啦。”

苏姗娜摇摇头，“哦，我还不想结婚呢，爸爸，谢谢你。”

我们会意地笑了起来，其实有个青年早已成为“新地方”的常客。他叫约翰·霍尔，是个聪明的青年医生。威尔很喜欢他。

再回到伦敦，形势已明显好转，剧院经常爆满，演员在市里已成为新贵。威尔和我住进了银街的豪华居所，同住的是芒特乔伊家。“环球剧院”和“宫内大臣剧院”事业兴隆，剧团中老资格的演员赚了钱，开始买地置产。不过，还有少数人始终认为演员既危险又龌龊。

1603年3月24日，伊丽莎白女王死于里士满宫。我对这天记忆犹新，各家剧院关门息演——女王快要驾崩时，是不许演出的——于是大家都聚到亨利·康德尔家。他和约翰·海明就住在我们住地附近的“克里普勒门”大街。

大家都忧心忡忡。新继位的英国国王是詹姆士一世。他已经是苏格兰国王了，年轻的妻子是来自丹麦的安妮王后，膝下有三个孩子。不知这国王为人怎么样？他是不是位好国王呢？最重要的是，他是否爱看戏？

“万一詹姆士国王不爱看戏，”亨利·康德尔说道，“那我们全完了。伦敦市政参议会中有许多清教徒，他们巴不得关闭剧院呢。”

亨利总是想到事情的阴暗面。

“然而，国王他自己也曾写过许多书，”威尔说，“或许他也会对戏剧感兴趣的。我们只能等着瞧。”

我们并没等多久。5月19日，我正在“环球剧院”的舞台下面修理舞台场地的一扇破门，这扇门是演出时，让幽灵驾着一团烟雾进出用的。突然，我听到一阵脚步声跑过舞台，透过洞眼，向上一看，原来是威尔、约翰·海明和理查·白贝芝，他们欣喜若狂。

“听着，托比，”威尔手中攥着一张纸条说道，“这是詹姆士国王的亲笔信。从今天起，我们属于‘国王剧团’，要专为国王陛下服务，他想看我们所有的戏剧的演出。”

“进宫演出时，我们将穿上新的红色大衣。”理查说。

“还有，”约翰说，“宫里演出费每场20英磅。托比，你觉得这事怎么样？”

这回我们都开怀大笑。“嗨，约翰，”我说道，“要是我们有了钱，能给我买一扇新门吗？这扇破门再也不能修了——它太旧了。”

那年夏天，瘟疫卷土重来。到7月，伦敦每星期都有上千人濒临死亡。其中就有威尔好友本·琼生的小儿子。时至年底，英国有3万3千人死于瘟疫。剧院被封，“国王剧团”开始巡回演戏。

那年夏天，威尔和我返回斯特拉福镇。到圣诞节来临时，“国王剧团”入宫演出了很多出戏。那年，国王到伦敦境外的汉普敦宫躲避瘟疫。由于我不幸落马摔断腿而不能入宫。真是倒霉！我只得待在家里，不过，威尔一回来就会告诉我入宫演出的情况：

“托比，新国王和王后真懂得生活，”他说道，“他们家庭幸福美满，亨利王子，9岁，是个招人喜爱的小男孩，女儿伊丽莎白公主长相姣好，还有一个才两岁的查尔斯小王子。”他沉默了片刻，或许又想起爱子哈姆奈特。然后他继续说道，“安妮王后非常爱看戏，还喜爱音乐和舞蹈——一次舞会中居然露出双腿呢！”

“真没想到！”我说，“伊丽莎白女王在位时，宫中从未发生过这种事呀！”

“我们已生活在不同的时代了，托比。许多事都将不断变化。”

但变化只是姗姗而来。“国王剧团”一次又一次取得成功。1604年圣诞节，室宫内共上演了22部戏剧，其中八部是威尔的剧本。1605年，宫中演出了13部戏剧——10都是威尔的剧本。

入宫演出前，我们通常先在“环球剧院”试演。尽管威尔创作速度已不如当年，但这些年间，他却创作了一些最为出色的剧本——《奥赛罗》、《麦克白》和《李尔王》。《李尔王》是一部格调低沉的悲剧。当李尔王抱着死去的女儿考迪莉亚走上舞台时，“环球剧院”内不论男女老少都失声痛哭。这可一点不假。当然，还是由理查·白贝芝扮演李尔王，他真是一个了不起的演员！





9The Mermaid Tavern


The Mermaid Tavern

During the next few years the plague was always with us. Some years it was bad, other years not so bad. When the theatres in London closed, we went on tour. Well, the King's Men did. Will and I were mostly at home in Stratford in the summers. Will was usually writing, and I did bits of business for him when I could.

Susanna married Dr John Hall in June, 1607, and Will's granddaughter Elizabeth was born in February the next year. We had a very cold winter that year. The river Thames in London froze right up to Westminster. People had parties and cooked sheep over fires on the ice.

Will's brother Edmund died that winter—he was only twenty-seven—and Will's mother died in September the next year.

Will was writing a different kind of play at this time. John Heminges said they were dark, cruel plays, and that Will was only looking at the black side of people. But that was the thing about Will. He was still changing, trying new kinds of poetry and stories in his plays all the time. And suddenly, there was a new kind of play, full of laughing and spring flowers and love: The Winter's Tale .

When we were in London, we often went in the evenings to the Mermaid Tavern in Cheapside. It was a very good inn, with good beer, and all the writers and poets in London went there.

We were there one evening in the winter of 1610, I think it was. A lot of Will's friends were there—actors, writers. Ben Jonson was there, of course. He was a great drinker all his life. He was writing a lot of plays now and was doing very well. But he never had any money—Will always paid for the beer.

At first, the talk was all about King James and his court. We didn't like the King so much now—he was more interested in horses than in plays. Then Ben remembered something about The Winter's Tale . He knew, really, that Will's plays were the best, but he always liked to find mistakes if he could.

'Now, why did you put Bohemia by the sea, Will?' he said. 'Bohemia's in the middle of Europe! There's no sea for a hundred miles, you stupid man!'

'Your plays are very clever, Ben,' Richard Burbage said, 'but they smell of the schoolbook, don't they, Will?'

Will laughed. 'How many people are going to worry about that, Ben? What does it matter? They liked the play at court. The Queen said it was a very sweet play, and the King —'

'The King!' Ben said loudly. His face was red and angry. King James sometimes fell asleep during Ben's plays. 'The King,' he went on excitedly, 'is a very stupid man! I told him, I said it to his face: "Sir, you don't understand poetry!" '

John Heminges laughed. 'Oh my word!' he said. 'What a terrible man you are, Ben! I don't know how you've lived so long!'

Will laughed too, but he said, 'Ben, you must be careful. You don't want the King to be your enemy. Don't forget that he pays twice as much as Queen Elizabeth did—and sees twice as many plays.'

'Money?' shouted Ben. He loved to argue about anything. 'We're poets and actors, not businessmen! What does money matter?'

'It puts bread and meat in your stomach, and a coat on your back,' said Will, drinking his beer. 'And you're the first to shout if you haven't got any money.'

Ben banged his beer glass on the table. 'Now listen, Mr William Shakespeare of Stratford, with your fine big house and your expensive horses, you wrote in your play King Lear that money was—'

'Oh, do stop it, you two!' John Heminges said. He turned to talk to me, but a few minutes later Ben was arguing about another of Will's plays.

'And what about Antony and Cleopatra ? What kind of writing is that? You never know which place you're in! One minute you're in Egypt, the next minute you're in Rome, then you're at sea on a ship, then back in Egypt again—'

Richard Burbage didn't like that. 'You're wrong again, Ben. It's only you who can't follow the play. You think Londoners are stupid, but they understand more than you do! And another thing...'

I decided to go home to bed. Ben's a fine man, but he does talk so much. He goes on and on. When I left, he was calling for more beer. I knew they would be there in the Mermaid for most of the night.

mermaid n. (in stories) a young and usu. attractive woman with the bottom half of her body like a fish's tail. （故事中的）美人鱼。

tavern n. (old use) an inn. （旧用法）客栈。

freeze (froze, frozen) v. to be very cold (when water changes to ice). 冷冻，结冰。

tale n. a story of imaginary events. 故事。

Europe n. 欧洲。

sweet adj. gentle or attractive in manner. 甜蜜的。

fall asleep to go into a state of sleep. 入睡。

businessman n. a man engaged in business. 生意人，商人。

stomach n. a baglike organ in the body where food is digested after being eaten. 胃。

bang v. (to cause to) knock, often with a loud noise. （使）重击。

Rome 罗马。





9 　美人鱼酒店


随后的几年里，瘟疫流行不断，有些年份情况很糟，有些年份要好一些。只要伦敦市内剧院关门停业，我们就巡回演出。当然，国王剧团一直这么做。威尔和我夏天多半呆在斯特拉福镇的家中。威尔通常搞创作，而我则尽可能帮助他打理零碎的生意。

1607年6月，苏姗娜嫁给约翰·霍尔医生。翌年2月威尔的外孙女伊丽莎白出世。那年冬天，天寒地冻，泰晤士河伦敦河段到西敏斯特河段大面积结冰。人们就在冰上举行盛会，还生起篝火烤羊吃。

那年冬天，威尔的弟弟埃德蒙去世——年仅27岁——第二年9月，威尔的母亲又过世了。

这一时期，威尔创作风格大有变化。约翰·海明说威尔只看到人们丑陋的一面，使得戏剧带上沉郁、残暴的色彩。不过，威尔就是这样。他的创作风格一直在变，不断尝试在戏剧中运用新格调的诗歌和故事。突如其来地，他又创作出一部新剧本《冬天的故事》，这部戏剧充满欢笑、春天的鲜花和爱情。

在伦敦时，我们晚上经常到切普塞特街的美人鱼酒店。这家酒店环境舒适，备有好酒，是伦敦文人墨客聚会喝酒的好去处。

1610年冬天的一个晚上，我们来到这家酒店，我记得没错。威尔的许多朋友——演员和剧作家都在场，当然也少不了平生很能喝酒的本·琼生。虽然他创作了大量的剧本，也小有名气，但他还是身无分文——连喝啤酒的钱通常都要威尔掏腰包。

开始的时候，话题总是围绕着詹姆士国王和他的宫廷大臣。说实在的，我们现在不大喜欢这位国王了——他爱看赛马已胜过爱看戏。这时，本想起《冬天的故事》剧本中的一些情节。尽管他确实承认威尔的戏剧是最优秀的，不过，他就喜欢鸡蛋里挑骨头。

“嗨，威尔，你怎么把波希米亚这地方说成是在海边呢？”他说道，“波希米亚可是在欧洲中部呀！方圆一百英里以内根本就没有海，你真糊涂！”

“本，你创作的剧本确实不糊涂，”理查·白贝芝说，“不过太书卷气，威尔，你说呢？”

威尔笑道：“本，会有几个人去深究那些细节呢？这有什么关系呢？宫里的人们喜欢这部戏。王后说，这部戏剧很甜蜜，而国王——”

“国王！”本大嚷起来，脸气得发红。因为詹姆士国王看本的戏剧有时打瞌睡。“国王，”他仍然很激动，“简直笨得透顶！我曾告诉他，当面对他说过：‘陛下，你压根儿不懂诗歌！’”

约翰·海明听了此话大笑。“噢，真没想到！”他说，“本，你真是无可救药！我真不知道你怎么还能活这么长命！”

威尔也笑了起来，但他说道：“本，你可要小心呀。你不想与国王为敌吧！别忘了，国王付的报酬是伊丽莎白女王的两倍——看的戏也是她的两倍。”

“钱？”本大叫起来，他很爱争论事情。“我们是诗人，是演员，不是生意人！钱有什么用？”

“钱可以使你有面包和肉果腹，有衣穿，”威尔喝了一口啤酒，说道，“要是没钱的话，你会第一个破口大骂的！”

本把啤酒杯砰地放在桌上。“现在听着，斯特拉福镇的威尔·莎士比亚先生，你不就拥有堂皇的居宅，高价的马匹吗？你在《李尔王》一剧中不是写道钱是——”

“啾，你们两个都住嘴吧！”约翰·海明劝道，然后便转身和我谈话。不过几分钟后，本又在评论威尔的另一部戏剧。

“《安东尼与克娄巴佩特拉》这部剧怎么样？到底写些什么呀？你根本就不知道自己待在何处！一会儿在埃及，一会儿在罗马，接着坐船在海上，然后又回到埃及——”

理查·白贝芝渐生厌恶之情。“本，你又搞错了，只有你才不懂这部戏。你认为伦敦人都傻乎乎的，他们可比你清楚得多。还有……”

我还是决定回家睡觉。本是个好人，但是他的确话太多了。他讲得没完没了。在我离开时，他又要了一些啤酒。我知道他们肯定又会在酒店待上多半夜。





10Back to Stratford


Back to Stratford

'You're losing your hair, Will,' I said to him one day.

'We're both getting old, Toby,' he said. 'There's no escape from it. Old and tired.'

'Don't talk like that,' I said. 'You're only forty-seven. There's still some life in you yet. And another twenty plays!'

'No,' he said slowly. 'No, I think the poetry is nearly finished. I'm getting tired, Toby. I need a rest. I think The Tem pest is going to be my last play. I'm saying goodbye to the stage. Times are changing, and people want a different kind of play now. There are lots of new, younger writers, who know how to please the playgoer. I'm not modern anymore.'

He never usually talked like this, and I didn't like it.

'There's only one Will Shakespeare,' I said, 'and he'll always be modern. Now, I must get on. I've got to go out and buy all the cloth for the new costumes in The Tempest . Why did you have to put it on an island? When the ship goes down, the actors all have to come on stage in wet clothes. It takes a day to dry the costumes, so that means two lots of clothes for everyone—wet and dry!'

That brought him back to life. 'Can't you read?' he said crossly. 'If you look at Gonzalo's words in Act 2, Toby, you'll see that it's a magic island—and their clothes stay dry all the time. So they'll only need one lot.'

I laughed, and then he laughed too.

But it was true, he was tired. I could see it, and others could see it too. But the company was always wanting new plays, and we had two theatres now. There was the Globe, and now we had the Blackfriars theatre. Plays in the Globe were in the open air and always had to be in daylight, but the Blackfriars was a building with a roof. We could put on plays in the evenings and in any weather. It also made more money, because every playgoer had a seat and paid a shilling for it. In the Globe they paid a penny to stand.

In February 1612 Will's brother Gilbert died in London, and just a year later his brother Richard died in Stratford. That was in February, too. Will was the oldest brother, and he was the only one still alive. We spent most of our time in Stratford these days. Will didn't act in plays now. He went to rehearsals for his new plays, of course, but he was always happy to hurry home again.

We were riding back to Stratford in the spring of 1613 and stopped for the night at the Crown Inn in Oxford. Will was very friendly with the landlord John Davenant and his wife Jane. The next morning, when we left, their little son, William, came running out to say goodbye to his good friend Mr Shakespeare. He was a bright boy, about seven years old, with much the same colour hair and eyes as Will. Will talked with him for a few minutes, then gave him a penny.

Later, when we were riding along the road, I said, 'The last time we were in Oxford, I heard some talk in the town. Someone said that you were the father of Jane Davenant's son.'

Will laughed. 'Well, well,' he said, 'People say that, do they? What will they say next?'

'Jane's a nice-looking woman.' I looked at him out of the corner of my eye. 'Isn't she?'

'Come on, Toby. You know that Jane is a good wife to John.' He was still smiling. 'You mustn't listen to stories like that.'

I never believed that story myself. But many years after Will died, William Davenant told a lot of people that he was Shakespeare's son. But how did he know? His mother wouldn't tell him!

Will was happy to get home, to see his daughters and John Hall, and little Elizabeth, who was just five then. He was happy to see Anne, I think. He never said much to her, nor she to him. But after more than thirty years together, you've already said everything, haven't you?

I think Judith was Will's favourite daughter. Susanna was brighter and cleverer, but Judith was Hamnet's twin, and Will still remembered his son. He wanted a son, or a grandson, so much. Judith was twenty-eight now, and still no husband. But Will told her not to hurry. She must find the right man first.

Will worked hard all his life, and I think it was all for his family. I remember some lines from his play The Tempest , when Prospero is talking to his daughter Miranda.

I have done nothing but in care of thee,

Of thee, my dear one, thee my daughter ...

tempest n. a violent storm. （文语）暴风雨。

say goodbye to 向……告别。

go down 下沉。

crossly adv. angrily. 生气地。

magic adj. when strange and wonderful things happen. 有奇异魔力的。

in the open air. 露天。

roof n. the outside covering on top of a building. 屋顶。

shilling n. a coin in old English money (about 5p in new English money). 先令。

landlord n. a person, esp. a man, who runs a rooming house or an inn; an innkeeper. 房东，客栈店主。

penny n. (in Great Britain before 1971) a bronze coin, 12 of which made a Shilling. （1971年以前之大不列颠）便士（12便士等于1先令）。

look at sb. out of the corner of one's eye （某人）用眼角看（某人）。

right adj. most suitable. 合适的。





10 　退居斯特拉福镇


“威尔，你掉头发啦。”一天，我对他说道。

“我们俩都老了，托比，”他说，“谁也躲避不了衰老和疲惫。”

“别这么说，”我说，“你才47岁，日子还长着呢，还可以再写20部戏剧！”

“难啦，”他缓缓说道，“难啦，我发觉自己已是江郎才尽，我也感觉累了，托比。我需要休息。我想《暴风雨》将是我最后一部戏剧。我要和舞台告别啦。时代在变化，人们现在需要看些不同风格的戏剧。更何况纷纷涌现出一批年轻的新剧作家，他们懂得如何博得戏迷的欢心。我再也跟不上时代了。”

他从来不曾这样说过，我也不爱听。

“世上只有一位威廉·莎士比亚，”我说，“他永远跟得上时代。好啦，该干活了，我得出去购置《暴风雨》一剧新服装的布料。你为什么要让故事发生在一个荒岛上呢？轮船下沉后，演员们只能穿着湿漉漉的衣服回到舞台。衣服要花一天的时间才能晒干，这就意味着每人都得准备两套衣服——一件湿衣服和一件干衣服。”

这番话使他又恢复了生机。“你看不懂吗？”他忿忿地说，“托比，你若是看了第二幕贡柴罗那段话，你会知道那是一座魔岛——他们的衣服一直是干的，所以只需准备一套衣服。”

我笑了，接着他也笑了。

但事实的确这样，他累了。我看得出来，别人也看得出来。不过，剧团总需要新剧上演，况且我们现在有两个剧院：“环球剧院”和“黑修士剧院”。“环球剧院”是露天剧院，戏剧通常只能白天演。“黑修士剧院”是有屋顶的剧院，戏剧可以在晚上以及随便什么天气上演，钱也赚得更多，因为每个观众花一先令可以有一个座位，但在“环球剧院”，观众花一便士站着看。

1612年2月，威尔的弟弟吉尔伯特死于伦敦。一年后，也在2月份，他弟弟理查死于斯特拉福镇。威尔是家中的长子，而且是唯一一个还活在世上的。这些日子，我们多半待在斯特拉福镇。威尔不再上台演戏，不过他肯定赶去看新剧本的预演，然后，兴致勃勃地赶回家。

1613年春，我们骑马回斯特拉福镇，途中在牛津的“皇冠客栈”寄宿。威尔对客栈老板约翰·达文南特和他妻子简非常友善。第二天早要离开时，他们的小儿子威廉跑出来向他的好朋友莎士比亚先生告别。这小孩聪明伶俐，大约7岁，发色和眼睛酷似威尔。威尔和他聊了几分钟，然后送给他一便士作纪念。

当我们策马上路之后，我说道：“我们上次在牛津时，我在镇上听到一些闲话。有人说你是简·达文南特儿子的父亲。”

威尔大笑。“是吗，是吗，”他说，“人们这么说的，是吗？他们还会说什么呢？”

“简长得美丽动人，”我用眼角看看他，“不是吗？”

“好啦，托比。简是约翰的贤妻，你知道的。”他仍然微笑着。“你千万不能听信谣言。”

我才不会相信。但威尔死后的许多年后，威廉·达文南特却告诉许多人，他是莎士比亚的儿子。他又怎么知道的呢？他母亲绝不会告诉他。

威尔很高兴回家看望女儿和女婿约翰·豪尔以及才5岁的小伊丽莎白。我想他也高兴见到安。他从没对她多说几句话，她也一样。但是30多年的相处，该说的早已说过，不是吗？

我觉得威尔最宠爱珠迪丝，尽管苏姗娜更聪明伶俐，但是珠迪丝是哈姆奈特的孪生妹妹，威尔仍在怀念爱子，他太想有个儿子或外孙了。珠迪丝现在28岁，尚未婚嫁，但威尔劝她不必急，首先得找到中意的人。

威尔一生勤奋工作，我想，这全都是为了这个家。我还记得在《暴风雨》一剧中，普洛斯彼罗对女儿米兰达讲的那几句话：

凡我所做的事，无非是为你打算，

为了你，我的宝贝，我的女儿……





11The last years


The last years

Will did write another play, of course. That was Henry Ⅷ and he wrote it because the King's daughter, Princess Elizabeth, was getting married. The King's Men had to have a new play for a special day like that.

We were in London for rehearsals at the Globe, and the actors put on the new play for the first time on the 29th of June, 1613. I remember the date well.

It happened soon after the play began. Richard Burbage was on stage and he suddenly looked up and stopped in the middle of a word.

'Fire!' he shouted. 'The theatre's on fire!'

Wooden buildings burn fast, and Henry Condell shouted, 'Everybody out! Quickly!'

The crowd of playgoers began to hurry to the doors, and I ran round to open them. We could all see the smoke now, and John Heminges shouted to Will, 'The playbooks! We must get the playbooks out!'

Everybody got out and no one was hurt. One man's coat caught fire and his friend put the fire out with a bottle of beer. But the Globe burnt right down to the ground in an hour. Poor old John Heminges just stood there and cried.

But you can't kill a theatre that easily. A year later there was a new Globe in the same place. Bigger and better than the old one. People said it was the finest playhouse in England.

We didn't often go to London in those last years. Will was happy at home in Stratford with his family. He had time for his garden, time to talk to his Stratford friends, time to play with his granddaughter Elizabeth. He read his plays again, and he and I talked and laughed about the old days.

Judith got married at last in February 1616. She was thirty-one then, and married a man called Thomas Quiney, who was twenty-six. Will wasn't too happy about it.

'Judith loves him very much,' he said quietly to me. 'But I'm not sure about him. I think she's making a mistake.'

He was right, of course. Will was usually right about people. Thomas Quiney was lazy, drank too much, and went with other women.

But Will didn't live to find that out. In March he went to London for a party at the Mermaid Tavern. Ben Jonson was now the playwright for the court of King James. The King was paying him some money every year, and Ben wanted to give a party for his friends.

It was a good party, I heard. But Will caught a fever and then rode home through the cold spring rain. When he got back to New Place, he was not a well man.

He died on the 23rd of April, in the year 1616.

They put his body in Holy Trinity Church, down by the river Avon. It was a bright, windy day, I remember. Ben Jonson came down from London, and cried in the church. He was a wild man, was Ben, always fighting and arguing about plays and poetry. But he loved his friend. He came up to me outside the church.

'Toby,' he said. 'Will was a good, true man, and I loved him. We'll never see another poet like him in England.'

wooden adj. made of wood. 木制的。

burn v. to be on fire. 燃烧。

drunk too much 纵酒。

well adj. in good health. （指身体）很好。

holy adj. of God and religion. 神圣的。

Trinity n. (in the christian religion) the union of the 3 forms of God (the Father, Son and Holy spirit) as one God. 三位一体（指基督教中，天父、耶稣、圣灵合成一体）。

windy adj. with a lot of wind. 有风的。





11 　退隐的晚年


威尔又写了一部戏剧《亨利八世》。此剧是为了庆祝国王之女伊丽莎白公主结婚大典而写的。像这样特殊的日子，“国王剧团”是一定要推出一部新剧本的。

1613年6月29日，在伦敦的“环球剧院”，我们首次登台预演这一新剧。这个日子我记得一清二楚。

演出开始不久，意外事故就发生了。理查·白贝芝正在台上演出。突然，他抬起头，台词说到一半就停住了。

“着火啦！”他大嚷起来，“剧院着火啦！”

木制的房子火势蔓延很快，于是亨利·康德尔大叫着：“大家赶快出去！快！”

看戏的人群开始拼命向门口挤，我赶紧打开所有大门疏散人群。这时我们都能看见烟雾弥漫，约翰·海明对威尔喊道，“那些剧本！我们必须把剧本抢出来！”

最后大家都安然无恙地脱险。有人衣服着了火，但他朋友用一瓶啤酒就给浇灭了。不过“环球剧院”一小时后全部烧毁，夷为平地。可怜的老约翰·海明只能站在那儿，顿足痛哭。

但是让剧院就此消失并不是轻而易举的事。一年后，在原地又盖起一座新的“环球剧院”，比原来的更大更气派。人们都说这是英国最好的一家剧院。

在威尔生前的最后几年中，我们不常去伦敦。在斯特拉福镇，他很高兴和家人待在一起。这样一来，他就有时间搞搞园艺，和斯特拉福镇的朋友聊天，和外孙女伊丽莎白玩耍。他还重读他的剧本，而且与我一回忆起过去的岁月就谈笑风生。

1616年2月，珠迪丝终于嫁给了一位名叫托马斯·奎尼的男人，当时她31岁，丈夫26岁。威尔为此闷闷不乐。

“珠迪丝非常爱他，”他平静地对我说，“但我觉得这青年不可靠，我想她犯了一个错误。”

他确实说准了。威尔对人的直觉通常没错。托马斯·奎尼游手好闲，纵酒，还和其他女人勾勾搭搭。

但是威尔生前未能知道真相。同年3月，他去伦敦美人鱼酒店参加一个聚会。本·琼生这时已成为詹姆士国王的宫廷剧作家，国王每年付给他一些薪水，于是本决定宴请朋友。

听说这次聚会很热闹，但威尔不幸感冒发烧，后来骑马回家又淋了一场冰冷的春雨。当他回到“新地方”家中，人就垮了。

他于1616年4月23日去世。

人们将他安葬在艾汶河畔的“圣三一”教堂。我记得，那天天气晴朗，微风习习。本·琼生从伦敦赶来，在教堂内失声痛哭。他真是个粗犷的人，敢于攻击和评论戏剧与诗歌。但他爱他的朋友。在教堂外面，他走到我身边。

“托比，”他说道，“威尔是个真正了不起的男子汉，我喜欢他。英国再也不会有像他那样的诗人了。”





12England will remember


England will remember

Well, all that was thirty-three years ago. I'm an old man, and everyone is dying around me. Anne Shakespeare died in 1623, and John Hall went about twelve years later, fighting the plague. Susanna's still alive, and Judith. She had three sons, but they all died. So there's no boy in the family to keep poor Will's name alive. Susanna's girl Elizabeth has had no children, and she's forty-one already... Susanna still comes to visit me sometimes, and we talk about the old days.

We live in sad times now; the Puritans cut King Charles's head off last January. But one day we'll have a king again. Then there'll be singing and dancing and plays.

You'll see. Oh yes. People won't forget William Shakespeare. In 400 years' time, the theatres will still be full. People will still laugh, and cry, over his plays. He was the finest poet that ever wrote in the English language. I think he knew that himself. There's some lines in one of his sonnets, I remember...

Not marble, nor the gilded monuments

Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme...

marble n. a hard sort of stone used for building, sculpture, gravestones, etc. 大理石。

gild v. to cover with a thin coat of gold or gold point. 镀金。

outlive v. to live longer than (the memory of). 活得比…… 更久。

rhyme n. a short and not serious piece of writing. 押韵诗。





12 　英国会永远记住


可这都是33年前的事了。我已是一个垂暮之年的老人，周围的人纷纷离我而去。1623年，安·莎士比亚去世，大约12年后，约翰·霍尔死于瘟疫，只有苏珊娜和珠迪丝尚健在。珠迪丝生过三个儿子，不幸都夭折了。所以这个家族无人能将可怜的威尔的名字传下去。苏姗娜的女儿伊丽莎白已经41岁，依然没有一子半女。苏姗娜有时仍过来看我，和我谈谈过去的日子。

我们如今生活在动荡的年代。去年1月，清教徒把查理国王送上了断头台。但终有一天，我们又会有一位国王，到时又会歌舞升平，又可以看戏了。

你不久就可以看到的！哦，当然啦，人们不会忘记威廉·莎士比亚。400年后，剧院依然会爆满，观众依然会为他的戏剧欢笑或落泪。他是运用英语语言创作最杰出的诗人。我想这一点，他自己也清楚。我记得在他的十四行诗中有这样的诗句……

没有王公们的大理石或镀金的墓碑

能够和我这些有力的诗句比寿……

——完——





Exercises


A Checking your understanding

Chapters 1 - 3 How much can you remember? Check your answers.

1 Which play did Queen Elizabeth watch on 6th January, 1601?

2 What did Will's father do?

3 How old was Will when he got married?

4 What were the names of Will's three children?

Chapters 4-6 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

1 Will loved the life of an actor in London.

2 Richard Burbage was an actor with the Queen's Men.

3 Plays in the Rose theatre were always in the evening.

4 The City Council closed the theatres in 1592 because of the plague.

5 Will wrote his poem Venus and Adonis for Lord Southampton.

6 A girl played the part of Juliet in Romeo and Juliet .

7 Will's son Hamnet died when he was eleven years old.

8 Will bought a new house for his family right in the middle of London.

Chapters 7 - 9 Who, or what, in the.se chapters ...

1 ... wanted Will to write a play about Sir John Falstaff in love?

2 ... was the name of the new playhouse in London?

3 ... played the part of Prince Hamlet?

4 ... became the new King of England in 1603?

5 ... got married in June, 1607?

6 ... was the name of the inn where all the writers and poets went?

7 ... liked to find mistakes in Will's plays?

Chapters 10 - 12 Write answers to these questions

1 Why did the King's Men make more money in the Blackfriars theatre?

2 What happened to the Globe theatre in 1613?

3 Why did Will go to London in the spring of 1616?

4 How old was Will when he died?

B Working with language

1 Use these words to join the sentences together.

Because　when　but　and

1 Will worked for his father in Henley Street. He left school.

2 A new actor only got six shillings a week. There wasn't work every week.

3 Toby didn't want to be an actor. He couldn't remember his words.

4 Perhaps Emilia Lanier was Will's Dark Lady. Toby didn't really know.

2 Put together these beginnings and endings of sentences.

1 Romeo and Juliet is a very sad play,

2 Will's play Henry Ⅴ is about a famous English king.

3 Ben Jonson wrote clever plays,

4 The King's Men always did the plays at the Globe

5 who fought a war in France.

6 but the playgoers liked Will's plays better.

7 before they took them to the King's court.

8 because the young lovers die in the end.

C Activities

1 Imagine that when Will's father dies, Anne asks Will to leave London and come home to Stratford. She wants him to stop acting and writing plays, and to be a glove-maker again. Will, of course, does not want to do this. Write down their conversation and act it out in class.

2 Imagine that Shakespeare is alive today and you want him to write a play for you. Write him a letter and tell him, in a few sentences, what the play must be about. For example, will it be about war and fighting, or family life, or a murder mystery? What kind of people will be in it, and what costumes must they wear? Will the play have a happy or a sad ending?

3 Who is, or was, a famous writer in your own country? Find out something about his or her life and write a short the class chooses a different writer, you can put together a small dictionary of famous writers.

京权图字 01-2006-3293

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

格雷丝·达林 = Grace Darling／（英）维卡里（Vicary, T.）著；方丹译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2013.7 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6818-3

Ⅰ．①格…　Ⅱ．①维…　②方…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物　②短篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第104917号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 易　璐

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年7月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6818-3

书　　号：

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519





内容简介


大海有很多面。有时它平静温和——如同游泳池般安宁。有时它狂野、暴躁而危险。我们筑堤抵挡大海，大海却把它们冲走。我们造船在海上航行，大海却把它们劈成两截，如同孩子折断玩具。当大海露出其狰狞的一面时，它就像一头野兽，一心只想着杀戮。

当然，你并不害怕大海。你在陆地上很安全，温暖而干燥。但若你是在怒海中的一条小船上，脸上是飞溅而来的海水，耳畔是咆哮不停的海风，那情况就不一样了。对我们来说，要做到不害怕很容易；这只是一本书而已。但对于格雷丝·达林，这不是故事。这是非常真实、寒冷而狂野的夜晚，那一夜她和大海抗争，毫无畏惧。





GRACE DARLING


The sea has many faces. Sometimes it is calm and gentle — as quiet as a swimming-pool. Sometimes it is wild, and angry, and dangerous. We build walls against the sea, and the sea washes them away. We build ships to sail on the sea, and the sea breaks them in two, like a child breaking a toy. When the sea wears its angry face, it is like a wild animal — that wants only to kill.

You, of course, are not afraid of the sea. You are safe on land, you are warm and dry. But it is different when you are on a small boat in an angry sea, with salt water flying into your face and the wind screaming in your ears. For us it is easy not to be afraid; this is only a book. But for Grace Darling it was no story. It was a very real, cold, wild night when she fought with the sea, and was not afraid.

The Times 　　London, 19th September 1838

On the afternoon of 6th September, the steamship For farshire began its journey from Hull to Dundee, in Scotland. There were 60 people on the For farshire , which was a big, comfortable, modern ship. There was a strong, north-east wind that afternoon, but at first no one was afraid...





1The For farshire


The

For farshire

Daniel Donovan was a passenger on the For farshire . He stood on the deck of the ship, and looked at the sea. It was difficult to stand on the deck, because the wind was so strong. The ship was moving up and down uncomfortably and Daniel felt ill. Then a big wave hit the side of the ship, and salt water flew into his face.

'The wind is getting stronger,' said a passenger beside him. He was a tall, dark man with a black coat — Mr Robb, a churchman. 'And it's getting darker, too.'

'Yes,' said Daniel. 'I can't see the land now.' He looked to the west, but he could see no land, no lights. Only water — big grey waves with white tops, which went up and down, up and down.

'But the For farshire is a good modern ship,' said Mr Robb. 'Nothing can happen to a new ship like this. Listen to those fine strong engines!'

Daniel looked down at the big paddle wheel on the side of the ship. It went round and round, down under the white water, and up again... under the water, and up. Then he looked up at the black smoke which came from the For farshire's funnel.

'Yes,' he said. 'They're good, strong engines.' But he was not really sure. He was an engineer, so he knew about engines. Sometimes the For farshire's engines made strange noises, and the paddle wheels went round slowly. Then there was a crash, and they went quickly again. Daniel was not happy.

A sea-bird flew low across the white tops of the big, grey waves. Daniel watched it, and felt wind and rain on his face. Then a door opened behind him, and a woman screamed.

'Simon, come back! Come back at once!'

Daniel looked behind him, and saw a small boy. He was running across the deck. He was only three or four years old, and the wind was much too strong for him. He fell over on the deck and began to cry. Then another big wave hit the side of the ship. The white water came over the side and carried the boy along the deck.

'Help!' the woman screamed. 'Save my child!'

Daniel put out a hand and caught the boy's coat. Then he carried him quickly back to his mother.

'Quick! Get back in, out of the wind, woman!' he shouted. He hurried through the door and closed it with a crash. 'It's too dangerous for children out there!'

'Yes, I know,' the woman said. 'Come here, Simon!' She sat down and held the boy with one arm. She had another child in her other arm — a little girl, about one or two years old. 'Thank you, sir,' she said.

The ship moved up and down very quickly, and Daniel sat down beside the woman. She smiled at him, but she looked very white and ill.

'I'm Daniel Donovan,' he said, 'What's your name?'

'Mary Dawson,' she said. 'This is my son Simon, and my daughter Sarah.'

'Isn't your husband with you?'

'No,' she said. 'He's in Scotland. We're going home to see him. It's good we're in a strong, modern ship.'

'Yes,' said Daniel. Then for a few seconds he said nothing. It was quiet in this room. Much quieter than outside.

'Mr Donovan,' said Mrs Dawson suddenly. 'What's happened to the engines? I can't hear them now. Can you?'

Daniel listened. 'My God,' he thought. 'She's right! The engines have stopped!' He could hear the noise of the wind and the sea, but not the engines. 'You're right, Mrs Dawson,' he said. He stood up, and ran to the door. 'Excuse me. I...' But then he opened the door, and his words were lost in the wind.

Outside, he looked up at the ship's funnel. There was no smoke above it. He looked over the side of the ship, at the big paddle wheels. He watched them for two minutes, but they did not move. And all the time the big grey waves lifted the For farshire up and down, and white water blew over the deck.

'What's happening?' screamed Mr Robb. 'Why aren't we moving?'

'The engines have broken down!' shouted Donovan. 'This isn't a sailing ship — it can't move without its engines!'

A big wave hit the side of the paddle wheel and sent white water over their heads. Some sailors were trying to put up a small sail, but the wind belw it out of their hands, away across the sea into the night.

'There are women and children on this ship,' shouted Mr Robb. 'It's nearly dark, and the weather is getting worse. What can we do?'

Daniel looked at him. 'I don't know, my friend,' he shouted back. 'I can't do anything. Why not ask God — you're a churchman! Perhaps He'll send an angel to save us!'

steamship n. non-military ship driven by steam power 汽船，轮船

steamship

passenger n. a person, not the driver, traveling in a public or private vehicle 乘客，旅客

passenger

deck n. a floor built across a ship over all or part of its length 甲板，舱面

deck

engine n. a machine that changes energy into mechanical force or motion 发动机，引擎

engine

paddle wheel a wheel with boards or paddles affixed around its circumference, usually driven by steam to propel a ship 明轮，桨轮

paddle wheel

funnel n. a metal chimney for letting out smoke from a steam engine or steamship （机车或轮船的）烟囱

funnel

crash n. a sudden loud noise made e.g. by a violent blow, break, etc. 碰撞声

crash

hurry v. to move or act with speed or haste 快速地移动或行动

hurry

lift v. to direct or carry from a lower to a higher position 举起，升高

lift

sail n. a piece of strong cloth fixed in position on a ship to move it through the water by the force of the wind 帆，篷

sail

angel n. a messenger from God 天使

angel

《泰晤士报》　　伦敦，1838年9月19日

9月6日下午，福法尔郡号轮船开始了从赫尔到苏格兰敦提的航行。福法尔郡号是一艘豪华舒适的新式大船，船上载有60人。那天下午刮着强劲的东北风，但是一开始并没有人感到害怕……





1 ．福法尔郡号


丹尼尔·多诺万是福法尔郡号上的一名乘客。他站在船甲板上望着大海。由于风势强劲，人很难在甲板上站稳。船上下颠簸得很厉害，丹尼尔觉得很不舒服。接着一个大浪打在船侧，海水飞溅到他脸上。

“风力越来越强了，”他身边的一名乘客说。这位高大黝黑的黑衣男士是罗布先生，一位牧师，“而且天也越来越黑了。”

“是的，”丹尼尔说，“现在我已经看不见陆地了。”他向西望去，但是看不见陆地，也看不见任何亮光。他只看见海水——顶着白色浪尖的灰色巨浪不断地起伏汹涌。

“但是福法尔郡号是一艘优良的新式海船，”罗布先生说，“这样一艘新船是不会出事的。听听那些精良有力的引擎发出的声音。”

丹尼尔低头看船侧的巨大桨轮，它们不停转动，时而深入白色的水下，时而钻出水面……周而复始。接着他抬起头来，看着福法尔郡号烟囱里冒出的黑烟。

“是的，”他说，“它们是强有力的引擎。”但他其实并不肯定。他是一名机械师，熟悉引擎。福法尔郡号的引擎时不时会发出异常的噪音，桨轮也转得缓慢。接着会发出撞击声，桨轮又恢复快速转动。丹尼尔忧心忡忡。

一只海鸟低空飞过灰色巨浪的白色浪尖。丹尼尔盯着它，感觉风雨打在自己脸上。突然他身后的一扇门打开了，一个女人在尖叫：

“西蒙，回来！马上回来！”

丹尼尔往身后一瞧，看到一个小男孩。他正从甲板那边跑过来。他只有三四岁，这风对他来说是太大了。他摔倒在甲板上，哭了起来。正在这时又一个巨浪击中船侧，白色的海浪冲过船舷，把小男孩沿着甲板冲出了一段距离。

“救命啊！”那女人尖叫道，“救救我的孩子！”

丹尼尔伸出一只手抓住了男孩的外套，然后飞快地把男孩抱还给他的母亲。

“快！回里面去，别待在风里，女士！”他喊道。他迅速走进舱门，使劲把门砰地关上。“孩子在外面太危险了！”

“是的，我知道，”女人说，“过来，西蒙！”她坐下来，用一只胳臂搂着男孩。她的另一只胳臂里还抱着一个孩子——一个一两岁大的小女孩。“谢谢您，先生。”她说道。

船颠簸得厉害，丹尼尔在这个女人身边坐下来。她冲他笑了笑，但她看起来苍白而虚弱。

“我叫丹尼尔·多诺万，”他说，“您叫什么名字？”

“玛丽·道森，”她回答说，“这是我的儿子西蒙和女儿萨拉。”

“您丈夫没和您一起吗？”

“没有，”她说，“他在苏格兰呢，我们现在就是回去看他。幸好我们坐的是一艘坚固的新式轮船。”

“是啊。”丹尼尔说。接着他沉默了几秒钟。客舱里很安静，比外面安静多了。

“多诺万先生，”道森夫人突然说，“引擎怎么了？我听不见响了，您能听见吗？”

丹尼尔听了听。“天哪，”他想，“她说得对！引擎已经停了！”他能听到狂风和大海的喧嚣声，但听不到引擎的声音。“您说得对，道森夫人。”说着他站了起来，向门口跑去。“失陪一下，我……”但接着他打开门，话音随之消散在风里。

到了外面，他抬头看轮船的烟囱——上面没有冒烟。他从船侧探头察看巨大的桨轮，看了两分钟，但它们一动不动。而灰色的大浪一直载着福法尔郡号不断上下颠簸，白色的水花飞溅到甲板上。

“出什么事了？”罗布先生尖叫道，“为什么我们原地不动了？”

“引擎出毛病了！”多诺万大叫着说，“这不是帆船，没有引擎它就动不了！”

一个巨浪击中桨轮，激起的浪花飞过他们头顶。一些水手试图升起一面小帆，但大风将它从水手们手里刮了出去，飘向大海远处，最后消失于夜色中。

“船上还有妇女和孩子，”罗布先生喊道，“天快黑了，天气越来越糟。我们该怎么办？”

丹尼尔看着他。“我不知道，我的朋友，”他回喊道，“我无能为力。干吗不问问上帝——您可是一位牧师！也许上帝会派一位天使来救我们！”





2The Lighthouse


The Lighthouse

When the engines stopped, the For farshire was about five kilometres east of St Abbs Head, in Scotland. The ship was travelling north, from Hull to Dundee. But the wind came from the north, so the For farshire , without her engines, began to go south again, back to England. It was dark, and the wind was very strong.

About thirty kilometres south-east of St Abbs Head is a group of small rocky islands not far from the mainland. These are the Farne Islands. On one of them, Longstone Island, there is a lighthouse. There were three people in the lighthouse that night — William Darling, his wife Thomasin, and their daughter Grace. Grace's brothers were usually there too, but that night they were in Bamburgh, on the mainland.

At seven o'clock that night, William Darling went up the long stairs of the lighthouse to light the big oil lantern. Grace went with him. William Darling was a thin, strong man about fifty years old. He moved quickly and quietly. He had a candle in his hand. Sometimes he turned to talk to Grace, and the candlelight lit up the big brown eyes in his kind, old face.

Grace was a young woman about twenty-two years old. She was not very tall or strong. She had big brown eyes like her father, and soft brown hair. She carried an oil can in one hand, and held the side of her long skirts with the other hand. She smiled at her father while they talked.

At the top of the lighthouse Grace and her father came into a small room. This room had no walls — just big windows all around. The noise of the wind and rain was terrible here, and they had to shout to hear each other.

Grace put oil in the big lantern in the middle of the room, and William lit it. When the lantern was burning, the big silver mirrors began to move slowly around it. William Darling and his daughter stood and watched them. The rain crashed against the windows, and the wind screamed like an animal in the night.

'God help the poor sailors to see this light,' shouted William. 'It's as dark as death out there. No moon, no stars — nothing but wind and rain and wild white water.'

'Let us pray there are no ships near the rocks,' shouted Grace. 'The storm will wreck any ship that comes near them tonight.'

'That's true, lass,' said William. 'But we can do no more now. Let's go down to supper.'

The father and daughter went slowly down the dark, narrow stairs to the kitchen. Grace's mother, Thomasin, was putting the supper on the table. She was a whitehaired woman of sixty-five.

'Did you see anything?' she asked.

'No, my love, nothing,' William answered. 'Only the rain on the windows.'

'Thank God,' she said. 'You couldn't help anyone tonight, William. If there is a shipwreck, you can do nothing. The boys aren't here.'

'But, mother,' Grace said. 'Father has to try to save people. It's his job. He can't leave them to die.'

'Grace, no man could row a boat by himself in this wild sea,' said Thomasin. 'So let us thank God that there are no poor ships near us, on this terrible night.'

'Yes, Grace, let us thank God for that,' said William. And so the three people sat quietly around their table in the warm kitchen, and put their hands together to pray. In the black night outside, the wind screamed, and the big waves crashed against the rocks, again and again and again.

lighthouse n. a tall structure with a powerful light that guides ships or warns them of dangerous rocks 灯塔

lighthouse

lantern n. a lamp consisting of a metal or glass container surrounding a flame or light 灯笼，提灯

lantern

can n. a usually round metal container 金属制的圆柱形容器

can

wreck v. to undergo ruin or disaster 使毁灭，使遇难

wreck

shipwreck n. the destruction of a ship, as by storm or collision 船只失事，海难

shipwreck

row v. to propel (a boat) with or as if with oars （用桨或桨状物）划船

row





2 ．灯塔


当引擎停下来时，福法尔郡号正位于苏格兰圣阿布斯海角以东约五公里处。轮船由赫尔向北航行去往敦提。但是风从北面来，于是，失去了引擎的福法尔郡号开始往南漂移，那是回英格兰的方向。天黑了，风非常大。

在圣阿布斯海角东南面大约三十公里处靠近陆地的地方，有一片岩石小岛，是法恩群岛。在其中的长石岛上有一座灯塔。当晚，灯塔里有三个人：威廉·达林，他的妻子托马辛，还有他们的女儿格雷丝。平时格雷丝的哥哥们也在那儿，但是那天晚上他们去了陆上的班堡。

晚上七点钟，威廉·达林爬上灯塔长长的楼梯去点燃巨大的油灯。格雷丝和他同行。威廉·达林五十上下，瘦小精干，行动迅速而安静。他手里拿着一根蜡烛，不时转过头来和格雷丝说话，烛光照亮了他苍老和蔼的脸上那双棕色的大眼。

格雷丝很年轻，约二十二岁，长得不高也不强壮。她有一双和父亲一样的棕色大眼睛，以及柔软的棕色头发。她一只手拎着一个油罐，另一只手提着长裙的裙摆。她一边说着话，一边冲着父亲微笑。

到了灯塔顶上，格雷丝和父亲走进一个小房间。这个房间没有墙壁，四周都是大窗户。这里的风雨声大得吓人，他们必须大声喊才能听见对方在说什么。

格雷丝将油倒进屋子中央的大灯里，威廉把它点燃。当灯燃烧起来，银光闪闪的大镜子开始围着它缓慢转动。威廉·达林和女儿站在一边看着。雨水撞击着窗户，狂风如同黑夜中的野兽一般咆哮着。

“愿上帝帮助可怜的水手们看到这亮光，”威廉喊道，“外面死黑死黑的，没有月亮，没有星星——除了风雨和汹涌的海浪，什么也没有。”

“让我们祈祷暗礁附近没有船只吧。”格雷丝喊道，“今晚所有靠近暗礁的船只都会被风暴摧毁。”

“没错，女儿，”威廉说，“但除了祈祷我们也无能为力。我们下去吃晚饭吧。”

父女俩缓缓走下黑暗狭窄的楼梯，来到厨房。格雷丝的母亲托马辛正把晚饭端上桌子。她是一位六十五岁的白发妇人。

“你们看到什么了吗？”她问。

“没有，亲爱的，什么也没有，”威廉回答说，“只有窗户上的雨水。”

“感谢上帝，”她说，“今晚你谁也帮不了，威廉。如果有船只失事，你无能为力。儿子们都不在。”

“但是妈妈，”格雷丝说，“爸爸必须尽力救人，这是他的工作，他不能见死不救。”

“格雷丝，今天大海这么凶猛，没人能独自划船出海，”托马辛说，“就让我们感谢上帝，保佑在这样可怕的夜晚我们附近没有可怜的船只。”

“是的，格雷丝，我们求上帝保佑吧。”威廉说完，三个人安静地围坐在温暖的厨房的桌旁，合起手来祈祷。屋外的黑夜中，大风呼啸，巨浪撞击着礁石，一遍，一遍，又一遍。





3In the Engine Room


In the Engine Room

'Mr Donovan!'

'Yes.'

'The captain wants to see you. You're an engineer, aren't you? Come this way, please.' The sailor opened a door and Daniel went quickly inside. They went down some stairs. He opened another door, and a great cloud of steam came out. Daniel followed the young sailor into the room. It was very hot in here, and there were clouds of steam everywhere. A tall, red-faced man came up to him.

'Mr Donovan? My name's Humble, Captain Humble. We need you, sir. You're an engineer, I understand. One of these engines has already stopped, and the other is working very badly. There's too much steam in this room, sir, and not...'

A big wave hit the ship with a terrible crash and Daniel, Captain Humble and the young sailor held onto the wall. Daniel saw a big man in a blue coat, and shouted to him.

'Are you the ship's engineer?'

'Yes!' The man looked angry, tired, and frightened.

'What's the matter? Why has this engine stopped?'

'Why? Because it's too old, of course! Look here! See this? And this...' For five minutes the two engineers moved around in the steam and smoke, and looked at the big engines.

'See? It's broken here, and here! How can I mend it now, in the middle of a storm? Can you do that, sir?'

Daniel shook his head. He was angry and frightened. 'No, of course I can't! The ship must go back to land!'

The man agreed quickly. 'That's right, that's what I say! But you tell Captain Humble that! He says this is a new, modern ship, so it can go anywhere, in any weather! Our rich passengers want to go to Scotland, so that's where we're going, he says! But it's too dangerous and...'

The man stopped when Captain Humble came near. 'Well, Mr Donovan? Can you help us? Do you know more about engines than this stupid engineer here? He says he can do nothing, and we must go back to Hull, because of a small storm! But I'm sure...'

'He's right, Captain Humble!' shouted Daniel. 'I can do nothing for these engines here, in this storm! They're too old, and this one is broken in three places! We must go back to land, Captain, or we will all drown! I cannot help you!'

'Gaaaaaargh!' The captain pushed Daniel angrily away from him. 'Then get out of my way, Mr Donovan — you're no good to me! Get back to the women and children!'

Daniel went quickly to the door, and up the stairs to the wind and rain outside. But he was a badly frightened man. His hands were shaking, and it was hard for him to stand in the terrible screaming wind. Above his head, two sailors were putting up a small sail. 'That's no good,' he thought. 'It's too small for a big ship like this. Without engines, we can do nothing.'

He stared out to sea, but he could see nothing — only the white tops of the great black waves, and the black clouds above. No stars, no moon. But — far away to the south-west — there was a little light flashing. On... off... on... off. It went behind a wave, and then came back again, like a star in the night sky, far away.

But it was coming nearer. Nearer all the time.

captain n. the person in command of a ship 船长

captain

mend v. to make repairs to 修理

mend

frightened adj. scared 受惊的

frightened

drown v. to die by being under water and unable to breathe 溺死，淹死

drown

flash v. to shine suddenly and brightly for a short time 闪光，闪烁

flash





3 ．机舱里


“多诺万先生！”

“哎。”

“船长要见您。您是机械师，对吧？这边请。”水手打开一扇门，丹尼尔迅速走进去，他们下了几级台阶。他又打开一扇门，一大团蒸汽扑面而来。丹尼尔跟随年轻的水手走进房间，里面很热，到处都是一团团的蒸汽。一个高大的红脸男人向他走过来。

“多诺万先生是吗？我是亨布尔，亨布尔船长。我们需要您，先生。我知道您是机械师。两个引擎有一个已经停了，另一个现在运行得也很糟糕。这屋子里蒸汽太多了，先生，而且不……”

随着一声巨响，一个大浪击中轮船，丹尼尔、亨布尔船长和那名年轻的水手紧紧抓住墙壁。丹尼尔看到一个身穿蓝色外套的大个子，就向他喊道：“你是这艘船的机械师吗？”

“是的！”这个男人看上去很生气，很疲倦，而且很恐惧。

“出什么问题了？引擎为什么停了？”

“为什么？当然是因为它太旧了！看看这儿！看到了吗？还有这里……”这两名机械师在蒸汽和烟幕里绕着巨大的引擎查看了五分钟。

“看到了吗？这里坏了，还有这里！这会儿在暴风雨里，我怎么修理？您能吗，先生？”

丹尼尔摇摇头，他又怒又怕：“不，我肯定不能！这艘船得立刻回到岸边去！”

这个男人马上表示同意：“对，我也是这么说的！但是你得跟亨布尔船长说！他说这是一艘新式的新船，所以它哪儿都能去，什么天气也不怕！我们船上有钱的乘客们想去苏格兰，所以那里才是我们的目的地，他这么说的！但这太危险了，而且……”

亨布尔船长走了过来，他便住了口。“怎么样，多诺万先生？您能够帮助我们吗？您是不是比这个愚蠢的机械师更懂引擎呢？他说他无能为力，因为这么一场小小的风暴我们就必须回赫尔去！但是我相信……”

“他是对的，亨布尔船长！”丹尼尔喊道，“在这样的暴风雨里，我对这些引擎也无能为力！它们太旧了，光这一个就有三个地方坏了！我们必须回岸边去，船长，否则我们都会淹死的！我帮不了您！”

“啊——见鬼！”船长恼怒地把丹尼尔从身边推开，“那就别挡我的道儿，多诺万先生——你对我没用处了！回到女人和孩子中间去吧！”

丹尼尔疾步走到门口，上了台阶来到风雨交加的外面。但是他着实被吓到了。他的双手在颤抖，而且他很难在呼啸的狂风中站稳。在他上方，有两个水手在升一面小帆。“没用的，”他想，“对这么大一艘船来说，那帆太小了。没有引擎，我们什么也干不了。”

他向海上望去，却什么也看不到——只有漆黑巨浪的白色浪尖和天上的乌云，没有星星，没有月亮。但是——在西南方向远远的地方——有一点微弱的亮光，忽明忽暗，闪烁不定。它一会儿被大浪挡住，一会儿又重新跃出来，就像夜空中的一颗星，那么遥远。

但它正在靠近，越来越近。





4Nothing to See


Nothing to See

It was half past two in the morning. In the lighthouse, Grace was asleep in her room. It was a small, tidy room, with white walls. Her dress was on the back of the door, and her other clothes were on a chair by the bed. There were some books on a desk, and some sea-birds' eggs on a table.

Someone knocked at the door. 'Grace!' her father's voice called. 'Wake up, lass. I need you to help me.'

'What is it, father?' She got up quickly, and opened the door. William Darling stood there with a candle in his hand. He was wearing his big black coat and heavy boots, and his hat was pulled down over his ears. His face was tired, and wet with rain.

'The storm is worse. The wind is coming from the north now, and it's stronger. We shall have to go outside and tie the boat down, or we shall lose it!'

'All right. I'll be down in a minute.' Quickly, Grace closed the door and put her clothes on. She often got up in the night. There was always work on a lighthouse, and the sea did not wait for morning. A minute later, she ran downstairs to the kitchen, put a coat over her thin dress, tied her hair under her hat, and followed her father out into the night.

The wind nearly lifted her off her feet. It was strong, black, hard, and wet. She opened her mouth to call to her father, but the words blew away into the night. Her coat and dress blew out behind her like paper, and the rain hit her face, like small stones.

She walked slowly after her father, to the boathouse. Her father was carrying a small lantern, and in its light Grace saw a great wave of white water. It broke against the rock in front of the boathouse, and white water crashed against the boathouse doors. William shouted something to Grace but she could not hear him — the sounds of the wind and the sea were too loud, too terrible.

In the boathouse, she helped her father tie the boat down to the rock. They tied down the oars, too, so that nothing could move them. Then they ran outside and carried everything into the kitchen — their chickens, their fishing things. Nothing could stay outside on a night like this.

Before they went back in, Grace stared out into the night. The light from the top of the lighthouse flashed out over the water, and for thirty seconds she could see very well. One after another, the big, black waves came out of the darkness — waves ten, twenty metres high! When they hit the rock there was a huge crash, and white water flew everywhere, thirty, forty metres up over the Longstone rock.

Grace stared out, over the waves, past the rocks and islands. But — thank God! — she could see no lights, no ships. No ship could live in that sea tonight.

'Grace! Come on in, lass!' Her father held the door open behind her. She went in quickly, and he closed the door behind them. Her mother had warm drinks ready for them.

'Go to bed now, father,' Grace said. 'You've had no sleep yet tonight. I'll watch the light now, and mother can come up at five.'

'All right, lass,' he said. William was very tired. He went upstairs with his wife, and in two minutes they were asleep.

Grace finished her drink quickly, and changed out of her wet clothes. Then she went up alone to the room with the big windows at the top of the lighthouse. The wild wind screamed and shook the glass.

It was half past three in the morning.

tidy adj. orderly and neat in appearance or habits 整齐的，整洁的

tidy

boot n. a covering of leather or rubber for the foot and part or all of the leg 长靴

boot

boathouse n. a building at the water's edge in which boats are kept 船库，船屋

boathouse

watch v. to pay attention to; to take care of 看守，看护

watch





4 ．什么都看不见


凌晨两点半。灯塔里，格雷丝在自己的房间里睡觉。这是一个整洁的小房间，墙壁雪白。她的裙子挂在门后，其他衣服放在床边的椅子上。书桌上有一些书，桌子上有一些海鸟蛋。

有人敲门。“格雷丝！”是她父亲的声音，“醒醒，女儿。我需要你的帮助。”

“怎么了，爸爸？”她飞快地下床，打开房门。威廉·达林手握蜡烛站在那里。他身着黑色大外套，脚穿一双厚重的靴子，帽子拉低盖住了耳朵。他满脸倦容，被雨水淋得湿漉漉的。

“暴风雨变大了。现在风从北方刮来，越来越猛。我们必须出去把船拴好，否则我们可能会失去它！”

“好的，我马上下去。”格雷丝迅速关上门穿好衣服。她经常半夜起来。在灯塔总有活儿可干，而且大海从不会等天亮再发作。一分钟后，她跑到楼下的厨房，在单薄的裙子外面罩上一件外套，把头发束到帽子里，然后跟着父亲出门，走进夜色里。

大风几乎将她吹起来了。黑夜里，狂风夹着雨水，凶猛而潮湿。她张开嘴要喊父亲，但声音被风声淹没，消散在黑夜里。她的外套和裙子如同纸片一般被风吹到身后乱舞着，雨水像小石子一样打到她脸上。

她尾随父亲缓步来到船屋。父亲拎着一个小提灯，借着灯光，格雷丝看到一个巨大的白浪打在船屋门前的礁石上飞溅开来，浪花飞到船屋的门上。威廉向格雷丝喊着什么，但她听不见——风声和海浪声太大，太猛烈了。

在船屋里，她帮助父亲把船绑到礁石上；他们还绑好了船桨，这样它们就不会被冲走。然后他们跑出来，把所有东西——包括他们养的鸡和渔具——都带回厨房。没有什么能经得住今晚外面的风雨。

进屋前，格雷丝向茫茫夜色中眺望。灯塔顶上发出的光洒到水面上，有三十秒钟她能看得很清楚。黑色的巨浪接二连三地从黑暗中扑出来——海浪足有一二十米高！它们撞击到礁石就会迸发出巨大的声响，水花四溅，飞到长石岛上空三四十米高的地方。

格雷丝放眼眺望大海远处，越过海浪望向礁石和岛屿的前方。但是——谢天谢地！——没有亮光，没有船只。今晚没有船能从海上生还。

“格雷丝！快进去，女儿！”父亲在她身后撑着门。她迅速进屋，他随手带上门。她的母亲为他们准备好了热饮。

“去睡吧，爸爸，”格雷丝说，“您今晚还一会儿都没睡过呢。现在我来照看灯，妈妈可以五点上来。”

“好吧，女儿。”他说。威廉非常疲惫。他和妻子一起上楼，没两分钟就睡着了。

格雷丝很快喝完东西，换下湿衣服，然后一个人来到灯塔顶上有大玻璃窗的房间。狂风呼啸，摇撼着窗玻璃。

此刻是凌晨三点半。





5The Shipwreck


The Shipwreck

In the passengers' sitting room on the For farshire Mrs Dawson looked unhappily at Daniel, Mr Robb, and two other men — Thomas Buchanan and James Kelly. Her two children were crying in her arms. 'I'm so frightened. Do you think we're going to die? What can we do, Mr Donovan, without the engines?'

'Not much, Mrs Dawson,' said Daniel slowly. 'But there are some islands, south of here, called the Farne Islands. They are very near. I've seen the lighthouse flashing on them. I think the captain is trying to go into the quieter water between the islands and the mainland. I... I'll go outside again, to see how near the lighthouse is. I'll come back and tell you.'

Daniel got up and went out into the night. It was raining hard now, and the wind was screaming from the back of the ship. He stared into the dark. He could see nothing in the west. Where was the light? He walked carefully across the ship, to the other side. Suddenly he fell on the wet deck, and he caught the side of the ship with his hands. Then he looked up, and a light flashed into his eyes. There it was — the lighthouse, only three hundred metres away, to the north!

'But this is wrong!' he thought. 'We're too close! Much too close! I must tell the captain!'

He stood up and began to run along the deck. But there in front of him, a great mountain of white water flew into the sky... ten... twenty metres above the ship.

'Rocks!' screamed Daniel. 'Rocks! There are rocks in front of us, rocks all around! Captain! CAPTAIN!'

The captain was already shouting at the sailors, and the ship was turning, turning to the west, away from the light. But it was too late. There was a great crash, and Daniel and all the sailors fell to the deck. Then another crash... and another. The waves lifted the For farshire and threw it onto the rock, like a child playing with a toy.

Daniel held onto a rope, and stared into the dark. The light flashed again from the lighthouse. Then he looked back along the ship. People were running out onto the deck, and screaming.

Then another very big wave hit the ship. White water flew everywhere, and fell on Daniel like stones. He heard a terrible crash, and more water fell on him. He opened his eyes, and looked back along the ship.

But there was nothing there.

Nothing but black water, and more waves. The ship was broken in two, and the back of the ship, with the captain and all the rich passengers, was not there.

A voice shouted into the wind. 'God help us! Save us from the sea, oh God!' The door of the passengers' room was broken. But there were still some people inside the room — Mr Robb, Mrs Dawson and her two children, Mr Buchanan, and James Kelly. Mr Robb was praying loudly.

Daniel went carefully back along the deck to the broken door. He put out his hand to touch it, and then a wall of white water hit the ship, and he could see nothing.

toy n. an object for children to play with 玩具

toy

rope n. a flexible, heavy cord of tightly intertwined cotton or other fibre 绳，绳索

rope





5 ．海难


在福法尔郡号的乘客起居室里，道森夫人忧心忡忡地看着丹尼尔、罗布先生和另外两个男人——托马斯·布坎南和詹姆斯·凯利。两个孩子在她怀中哭泣。“我吓坏了。您觉得我们会死吗？没有了引擎我们该怎么办，多诺万先生？”

“没多少办法，道森夫人，”丹尼尔缓缓地说，“但是这里有一些岛屿，就在南边，叫法恩群岛。它们离这儿很近。我看到岛上灯塔的闪光了。我想船长正在试图驶入群岛和大陆之间平缓的水域。我……我再出去一趟，看看灯塔有多近。我会回来告诉您的。”

丹尼尔站起来，走入外面的夜色中。此刻雨下得很大，风从船尾呼啸而来。他向黑暗中望去，西边什么都没有。刚才的亮光在哪边来着？他小心翼翼地走到船的另一边。突然他滑倒在湿漉漉的甲板上，他用双手抓住船侧，然后抬头一看，一道亮光闪入他的眼帘。就在那里——那座灯塔，就在三百米以外，就在北边！

“可这样不对！”他想，“我们靠得太近了！实在太近了！我得告诉船长！”

他站起来，沿着甲板跑。但就在他面前，排山倒海般的巨浪冲上天空……高出船十米……二十米。

“暗礁！”丹尼尔喊道，“暗礁！我们前面有暗礁，周围都是！船长！船——长——”

此刻船长已经在冲着水手们大喊了。船在转向，朝西转，偏离了亮光的方向，但为时已晚。随着一次剧烈的撞击，丹尼尔和所有水手都摔倒在甲板上。接着又一次撞击……再一次。巨浪将福法尔郡号抛起来，又摔到暗礁上，就像一个孩子扔着玩具。

丹尼尔抓住一根绳子，向黑暗中凝视——灯塔的亮光又闪烁了一下。接着他回头看看船上，人们尖叫着，纷纷跑到甲板上。

就在此时，又一个巨浪击中轮船。四溅的水花像石头般砸在丹尼尔身上。他听到一声可怕的撞击声，更多海水落到他身上。他睁开眼，回头看船上。

但那里什么也没有。

空无一物，只剩深沉的海水和接踵而来的浪涛。船断成两截，船的后半部分，还有上面的船长和所有有钱的乘客，都不见了。

一个声音在风中呼喊：“上帝救救我们吧！把我们从海里救出去，噢，上帝！”客舱的门被冲坏了，但舱里还有一些人——罗布先生、道森夫人和她的两个孩子、布坎南先生和詹姆斯·凯利。罗布先生正在大声祈祷。

丹尼尔小心翼翼地沿着甲板回到损坏的门那儿。他伸出手去摸门，此时一排幕墙似的海浪击中船身，他什么都看不见了。





6Out of the Window


Out of the Window

At twenty to five that morning, Grace felt a hand on her face. It was her mother. Grace was nearly asleep. The wind was screaming and shaking the big windows, and Thomasin Darling had to shout.

'Go to bed, Grace! It's nearly morning. I'll look after the lantern now.'

'All right, mother.' Grace got up slowly and went downstairs to her bedroom. It was much quieter in her room because of the strong stone walls. She looked at the birds' eggs on her table, the books on the desk near the bed. The bed looked warm and comfortable. She smiled, and began to get undressed.

A little grey light was coming in through the window. 'It's nearly morning,' she thought. 'I'll look at the sea, before I go to sleep.'

She walked to the window and looked out. But she could see nothing, because of the salt and rain on the glass. 'It doesn't matter,' she thought. 'I'm too tired. I'll go to bed.'

But before she went to bed, she prayed. And when she prayed, she heard a voice in her head. 'Go to the window, Grace,' it said. 'Go and look out.'

So she got up, went to the window, and opened it. The wind blew strongly into the room. It blew her hair across her face, and some books fell on the floor. In the grey morning light, Grace looked out across the sea.

Most of the rocks and small islands were under water. Big white waves were breaking over them. The sea was wild, frightening, terrible. Grace looked, and felt cold. She could not remember a storm as bad as this. She thought of her warm bed, and began to close the window.

Then she saw the ship.

It was a big ship, on Harker's Rock, about three hundred metres away to the south-west. A very big ship, but it was broken in two, with white water breaking all over it. Grace could not see it very well, because of the rain and the sea.

'Father! Father! Come quick!' She ran out of the room, down the stairs to her parents' bedroom. 'Come quick! There's a ship on Harker's Rock! A big one — a passenger ship! It's broken in two!'

William Darling was out of bed in a second. He put on his boots and coat and followed Grace up the stairs. 'Did you see any people?'

'No, father. But it's difficult to see anything in this wild sea.'

Her father took a telescope from his pocket and stared out of Grace's window at the wreck of the For farshire . He looked for a long time, then said, 'I can see no one, but my eyes are old. You look, lass.'

Grace stared carefully through the telescope. White water crashed over the wreck. Sometimes the ship moved on the rock, and sometimes pieces of wood fell off into the sea. But she saw no people.

'No, father. I think they have all drowned.'

'Poor, poor people.'

'Yes, but it's a good thing too, William.' Grace's mother was in the room now, and she was looking out of the window with her husband and daughter.

'Why is that, Thomasin?' William asked her.

'Why? Because the boys aren't here, William. You couldn't take a boat out in that wild sea alone. No one could. If there are people alive on that ship now, you cannot save them, William.'

'I could go with him, mother,' said Grace quietly.

'Not in a sea like that, Grace,' her mother said.

Her father said nothing.

'We mustn't stop looking,' said Grace. 'If there is someone alive, we can't just leave them to die.'

And so, for the next two hours, Grace and her parents watched the wreck of the For farshire through the telescope. Slowly, daylight came. But they saw no people... only rain, and waves, and a broken ship in the wild angry sea.

look after to take care of 照顾，照看

look after

undress v. take off one's clothes 脱衣服

undress

telescope n. a tubelike scientific instrument that makes distant objects look nearer and larger 望远镜

telescope

daylight n. the light of day; sunlight 日光，阳光

daylight





6 ．窗外


凌晨四点四十分，格雷丝感觉有一只手在抚摸她的脸。是她的母亲。格雷丝都快睡着了。狂风呼啸，摇撼着大窗，托马辛·达林不得不大声喊。

“去睡觉吧，格雷丝！天快亮了。现在我来看着灯。”

“好的，妈妈。”格雷丝缓缓站起来，下楼回到自己的卧室。因为有结实的石墙，她的房间里安静多了。她看了看桌上的鸟蛋和床头书桌上的书。床看起来温暖舒适。她笑了，开始脱衣服。

一丝灰暗的光透过窗户照到房间里来。“天快亮了，”她想，“我要先看看海，再睡觉。”

她走到窗前向外望去，但因为窗玻璃上有盐渍和雨水，她什么也看不清。“没关系，”她想，“我太累了，我要睡觉了。”

但是在上床睡觉之前，她做了祷告。就在祷告时，她听见头脑里有个声音。“到窗户那里去 ，格雷丝 ，”那个声音说，“去看看外面 。”

于是她站起来，走到窗前，打开窗户。风猛烈地刮进房间，把她的头发吹到脸上，一些书掉到地板上。趁着灰蒙蒙的晨光，格雷丝向海上眺望。

大多数暗礁和小岛都在水下。海水撞击着它们，迸发巨大的白浪。大海疯狂可怕，令人生畏。格雷丝看着看着，感到一阵寒意。她记忆中从没有过像这么恶劣的暴风雨。她想念自己温暖的被窝，于是开始关窗户。

就在这时她看到了那艘船。

这是一艘大船，就在哈克礁上，西南方向大约三百米远的地方。它的确是艘巨大的轮船，但已经折成两截，白色的浪花在船周四溅。由于雨水和海水交杂，格雷丝无法看清。

“爸爸！爸爸！快来！”她奔出房间，来到楼下她父母的卧室，“快来！哈克礁上有一艘船！一艘大客船！它已经断成两截了！”

威廉·达林立刻跳下床，穿上靴子和外套，跟着格雷丝上楼。“你看到有人吗？”

“没看到，父亲。但是海上狂风巨浪，很难看清什么。”

她父亲从口袋里拿出一架望远镜，透过格雷丝的窗户眺望福法尔郡号的残骸。他看了很久，然后说：“我没看到人，但我的视力不行，你来看看，女儿。”

格雷丝透过望远镜聚精会神地看着。白色的海浪不断冲刷着船的残骸。船时而在礁石上动一下，时而有几块木头掉进海里。但是她一个人也没看到。

“没有人，爸爸。我猜他们全淹死了。”

“可怜，可怜的人们。”

“是啊，但这也是件好事，威廉。”格雷丝的母亲进了房间，和丈夫、女儿一起向窗外眺望。

“为什么，托马辛？”威廉问她。

“为什么？因为儿子们不在，威廉。你不能独自一人驾船到狂风暴雨的海上去。没人办得到。就算那艘船上现在还有人幸存，你也救不了他们，威廉。”

“我可以和爸爸一起去，妈妈。”格雷丝平静地说。

“这样的海上不能去，格雷丝。”她母亲说。

她父亲没说话。

“我们不能停止搜寻，”格雷丝说，“如果还有人幸存，我们不能置之不理，眼看着他们死去。”

于是，在接下来的两个小时里，格雷丝和父母一起用望远镜关注着福法尔郡号的残骸。慢慢地，天亮了。但他们一个人也没看到……只有大雨、波涛和怒海中的一艘破船。





7On Harker's Rock


On Harker's Rock

There were twelve people on Harker's Rock. Daniel Donovan was with Mrs Dawson and her children, and there were eight other people near them. The wreck of the For farshire was behind them, between them and the lighthouse.

They were nearly dead with wet and cold. Every two minutes, white water fell on them. Daniel had lost his coat, and the wind cut through his thin shirt like a knife. His hands and legs were red with blood. Mrs Dawson was crying and sat with her arms around her two small children. Mr Robb prayed in a loud voice without stopping. Thomas Buchanan and the other men sat together, too cold to move. One man had a broken leg.

The waves got bigger, and the people on the rock moved closer together. After half an hour Mr Robb, the churchman, stopped praying. Daniel looked at him. He was lying on the rock, his face white and cold. His eyes were open, but he did not see Daniel's hand in front of his face. He was dead.

'We'll all be dead soon,' shouted Thomas Buchanan angrily. 'No man can live long here, in this wind.'

'Why don't they come from the lighthouse to save us?' shouted James Kelly.

The lighthouse! Daniel remembered it suddenly. 'We must wave to it!' he shouted. 'They can't see us here! Come up onto the top of the rock! Wave to them!'

Daniel and James Kelly climbed to the top of the rock, but at first the others did not move — they were too cold, too tired, too frightened. Thomas Buchanan had to hit them and push them to the top of the rock.

The wind was very strong there, so it was difficult to stand. They held onto the rock and shouted and waved at the lighthouse as hard as they could.

No one answered. Behind the wild sea and the rain, the lighthouse stood still and quiet. A few minutes later, the light stopped flashing. But they saw nobody. One by one, the men came down from the top of the rock, and sat with their arms around each other, out of the wind. Only Daniel and Thomas Buchanan stayed on top of the rock. They waved and shouted and cried, but they saw no one. Their faces were as cold as death, and salty and wet from the sea.

cut v. to penetrate with a sharp edge 穿透

cut

lie v. to place oneself at rest in a flat position 躺

lie

wave v. to make a signal with an up-and-down or back-and-forth movement of the hand or an object held in the hand 挥手，招手

wave





7 ．哈克礁上


哈克礁上有十二个人。丹尼尔·多诺万陪在道森夫人和她的孩子们身边，他们附近还有八个人。福法尔郡号的残骸就在他们身后，在他们和灯塔之间。

他们浑身湿透，快冻死了。海浪每隔两分钟就劈头盖脸地浇他们一通。丹尼尔的外套丟了，寒风像刀子一样刺透他单薄的衬衣。他的手上和腿上全是血。道森夫人坐在地上哭泣，臂弯里搂着她的两个孩子。罗布先生一刻不停地大声祷告。托马斯·布坎南和其他人坐在一起，冷得无力动弹。其中一人还折了腿。

海浪越来越大，礁石上的人靠得越来越紧。半小时后，牧师罗布先生停止了祷告。丹尼尔看着他。他躺在礁石上，脸苍白而冰冷。他双眼圆睁，但看不到丹尼尔的手在他面前挥动。他死了。

“很快我们全都会死的，”托马斯·布坎南怒吼道，“在这儿，在这样的大风里，没人能活得久。”

“灯塔的人怎么不来救我们？”詹姆斯·凯利喊道。

灯塔 ！丹尼尔突然记起它来。“我们得向它挥手！”他喊道，“他们看不见我们在这儿！上到礁石顶上来！向他们挥手！”

丹尼尔和詹姆斯·凯利爬到礁石顶上，但一开始其他人都没有动——他们太冷，太累，太害怕了。托马斯·布坎南不得不动手打人，把他们推到礁石顶上。

那里的风非常大，因此很难站稳。他们抓紧礁石，用尽全力一边呼喊一边向灯塔挥手。

没人回应。灯塔在怒海和暴雨的另一边安静地伫立着。几分钟后，灯光停止了闪烁。但他们没看到人。这些人一个接一个地从礁石顶上下来，相拥而坐，为彼此挡风。只有丹尼尔和托马斯·布坎南留在礁石顶上。他们挥手喊叫，但是他们没看到人。他们的脸被咸咸的海水浇湿，冰冷如铁。





8The Worst Sea This Year


The Worst Sea This Year

Grace saw them first. Her mother was cooking breakfast in the kitchen, and her father was turning off the lantern. Grace was still looking out of her window through the telescope. For a second she saw a man on top of the rock, then she could not see him behind the waves. But a minute later she saw him again — and there were two men this time. They stood together and waved wildly. Then the rain came, and she could see nothing. But perhaps there were four, or five? She put down the telescope and called her father.

'Father, come quick! There are men on the rock! They are still alive!'

William Darling ran into the room. He saw them. He put down the telescope and looked at his daughter.

'We must go, lass,' he said quietly. 'You and I. We must take the boat and save them. Will you come?'

'Of course, father,' she said. 'If we don't save them, who will?'

'That's right, lass.' William Darling looked out of the window, unhappily. 'I've not seen a worse sea this year. No boat could come from the mainland in this wind.'

Grace's mother came into the room, and heard him. 'You can't go, William!' she said. 'Grace is only a girl. Look at that sea! You'll both drown!'

'We have to try, mother!' said Grace angrily. 'Think of those poor people, alone on that rock. We live on a lighthouse — it's our job!'

'It's a job for your father and brothers, Grace, not you! You'll drown! How will that help those men?'

'How will it help them if we do nothing?'

Thomasin Darling looked out of the window again, at the wild, angry sea. She shook her head. 'Perhaps you'll get to the rock, Grace,' she said. 'With God's help and the wind behind you. But you'll never get back against the wind. Not one man and a girl in a storm like this. Never.'

William Darling took his wife's hands in his. 'Listen to me, Thomasin,' he said. 'There are three or four seamen on that rock. Strong men. They'll help row us back, if we save them.'

'If you save them,' said Thomasin. 'And if you don't... ?'

At first William Darling did not answer. He looked into his wife's eyes. 'We're going, Thomasin,' he said quietly. 'We have to go. Come down now and help us with the boat.'

Outside, in the terrible wind and the rain, it took them fifteen minutes to get the boat ready. Three times the waves nearly broke the boat on the rock. William got in first, and sat at the front. Grace and her mother held the boat away from the rocks. William got two oars ready, and waited for the next wave.

'All right, Grace! Get in now !' he shouted.

Grace jumped into the boat, and William pulled hard with the oars. One... two... three pulls, and then a wave lifted the boat and the oars were pulling at air. But they were away from the rocks. The boat came down between two waves, and Grace quickly got her oars out. They both pulled hard together, but carefully too. They did not want to lose an oar in the wild water. Grace was cold and her dress and hat were wet. She was afraid, but happy and excited too. 'This is what God wants me to do,' she thought. At the top of a wave she could easily see across the Longstone rock to the other side. Then the boat went down between the waves and she could see only mountains of wild water everywhere.

'Pull left! Left!' William shouted. 'We must keep the rocks between us and the worst waves!'

Grace pulled hard at her oars, and watched the waves. 'God will help us save them!' she thought happily. 'I know He will.'

Outside the lighthouse, Thomasin Darling watched the little boat. She saw it for a second, then it went behind a wave, and came up again. 'It's not possible,' she thought. 'No boat can live in a sea like that! Oh God, please — save my husband and daughter!'

She watched and prayed, and the little boat got smaller and smaller on the wild, grey sea.

cook v. to prepare (food) for eating by applying heat 烹调

cook

seaman n. a mariner or sailor 水手，海员

seaman

pull v. to operate (an oar) in rowing 摇桨，划桨

pull

excited adj. being in a state of excitement; emotionally aroused 兴奋的

excited





8 ．今年最糟的海况


格雷丝最先看到了他们。她的母亲在厨房做早餐，父亲熄灯去了。格雷丝还在透过望远镜向窗外远望。有一会儿她看见礁石顶上有一个人，接着海浪挡住，她就看不见他了。但是片刻之后，她又看见他了——而且这次是两个人。他们站在一起，发疯似的挥着手。接着下起雨来，她就什么都看不到了。但也许那里有四个人，或者五个？她放下望远镜，呼叫父亲。

“爸爸，快来！礁石上有人！他们还活着！”

威廉·达林冲进房间。他看到了他们。他放下望远镜，看着女儿。

“我们必须去，女儿，”他平静地说，“你和我。我们必须划船去救他们。你愿意吗？”

“当然了，爸爸，”她说，“如果我们不救他们，还有谁救他们？”

“不错，女儿。”威廉·达林看着窗外，忧心忡忡，“我今年还没见过比这更糟的海况。这样的风势下，陆地的船不可能来这里。”

格雷丝的母亲进房来，听到了他的话。“你们不能去，威廉！”她说，“格雷丝只是个姑娘家。看看那海！你们俩都会淹死的！”

“我们必须试试，妈妈！”格雷丝生气地说，“想想那些可怜的人，孤零零地在礁石上。我们以守灯塔为生——这是我们的工作！”

“这是你父亲和哥哥们的工作，格雷丝，不是你的！你会淹死的！这样能帮助那些人吗？”

“难道我们坐视不管就能帮他们吗？”

托马辛·达林又看了一眼窗外狂野汹涌的大海。她摇摇头。“也许你们到得了那块礁石，格雷丝，”她说，“在上帝的帮助和风力的推动下到达那里。但是顶着风，你们永远都回不来了。一个男人加一个姑娘，在这样的暴风骤雨中是绝对办不到的。绝对不行。”

威廉·达林握住妻子的手。“听我说，托马辛，”他说，“礁石上有三四个海员，都是壮汉。如果我们救了他们，他们就可以帮助我们把船划回来。”

“如果 你们救了他们，”托马辛说，“那如果你们救不了呢？”

威廉·达林一开始没有回答。他盯着妻子的眼睛。“我们要去，托马辛，”他平静地说，“我们必须去。现在下楼来帮我们备船。”

他们顶着外面的狂风暴雨，花了十五分钟才将船备好。有三次大浪几乎将船撞毁在礁石上。威廉先上了船，坐在船头。格雷丝和她母亲拉着船不让它撞到礁石。威廉准备好两只桨，等待着下一浪的来临。

“好了，格雷丝！上船，现在 ！”他喊道。

格雷丝跳上船，威廉用力划桨。一下……两下……三下，突然一个巨浪将船身托起，船桨划在了空气中。但他们离开了礁石。船下落到两股波涛之间，格雷丝迅速将她的桨拿出来划。他俩一同奋力地划着桨，不过也很小心翼翼，因为他们可不愿意在这样的巨浪里丢失船桨。格雷丝很冷，她的衣服和帽子全湿了。她很害怕，但同时也快乐和兴奋。“这是上帝要我做的事情。”她心想。在浪尖上时，她可以轻易地看到长石岛另一边的礁石。接着船落到两股海浪之间，她就只能看到四周山一样的巨浪。

“往左划！左边！”威廉喊道，“我们必须让礁石处在我们和最凶猛的海浪之间！”

格雷丝用力划桨，同时注意着海浪。“上帝会帮助我们救他们！”她高兴地想，“我知道他一定会！”

托马辛·达林在灯塔外盯着这艘小船。它一会儿看得见，一会儿被海浪挡住，一会儿又重新冒出来。“这是不可能的，”她想，“没有船能在这样的海里生还！上帝呀，求求您——救救我的丈夫和女儿！”

她一边注视着一边祈祷，小船在汹涌阴沉的海上越来越小。





9Angel in the Storm


Angel in the Storm

'Help me, Mr Donovan! Please help!'

'How can I help you, woman?' Daniel shouted at Mrs Dawson. 'How can anyone help?' He was too cold, too frightened, too tired. He couldn't think now.

'Please help my children!' cried Mrs Dawson. 'Keep them warm for me — they're so cold!'

Daniel put his arms around the woman and her children. It was true. The children were cold — very cold. Their eyes were open, but they were not moving. He tried to warm them with his hands. He shook them, but they did not move.

'It's no good, woman!' he said. 'No one can...'

'They're not dead yet!' screamed Mrs Dawson. 'I know they're not dead!' She looked into her children's faces. 'Wake up, Simon! Sarah! God will save us soon. Please don't die!'

Daniel was tired and angry. 'Don't be stupid, woman!' he shouted at her. 'We're all going to die, don't you understand? No one knows we're here!'

Mrs Dawson stared at him. Her face was wet with rain, and her hair was blowing in her eyes.

'God will send someone!' she said. 'He must! I know He will!'

'Who's He going to send? An angel?' Daniel laughed angrily, and looked at the wild, empty sea.

But Mrs Dawson was still screaming. 'Someone must come!' she shouted. 'We can't die here! Go to the top of the rock and look again! Tell them about my children!'

'Your children are... ' But he was afraid to say it. He turned away, angry with himself, and climbed to the top of the rock. The wind screamed in his ears. He looked across to the lighthouse and saw nothing — only waves, and more waves. 'I hate the sea!' he thought. 'It's like a great grey animal with a hundred white teeth. I hate it! It wants to kill us all!'

And then he saw the boat.

He saw it only for a second. It was on top of a white wave. It went down behind the wave, but then it came up again. Down, and up again. And it was coming nearer! A little boat with two people in it. He held the rock and stared at it. The boat came nearer, and nearer still. Then a great mountain of a wave came, with white angry teeth, and the little boat went down behind it.

'No!' Daniel cried. 'No, please God! No!'

The boat came up on top of the wave, with white water all around it. The oars were up, out of the water. For a second the boat began to turn on its side, then the oars went down into the water and the boat came down the side of the wave. Daniel could see the two people in the boat now. One was a man. One was a young woman.

He got up and ran down the rock. He was crying and laughing at the same time. 'It's all right, Mrs Dawson!' he shouted. 'It's all right! Look there! Look! Your angel is coming!'

hate v. to feel intense dislike toward 憎恨，厌恶

hate





9 ．暴风雨中的天使


“帮帮我，多诺万先生！请帮帮我！”

“我怎么帮您，女士？”丹尼尔朝道森夫人喊道，“谁能帮您？”他太冷了，太害怕了，也太疲惫了。他现在已经无法思考。

“请救救我的孩子！”道森夫人哭喊道，“帮我暖暖他们——他们太冷了！”

丹尼尔搂住这个女人和她的孩子。没错，孩子们很冷——特别冷。他们的眼睛睁着，却不动。他试着用双手温暖这两个孩子。他摇晃他们，但他们一动不动。

“没用了，女士！”他说，“没人能……”

“他们还没死！”道森夫人尖叫起来，“我知道他们没死！”她盯着孩子们的脸，说：“醒醒，西蒙！萨拉！上帝马上就会来救我们了。求求你们不要死！”

丹尼尔又累又气。“别傻了，女士！”他向她喊道，“我们都会死，你还不明白吗？没人知道我们在这里！”

道森夫人盯着他。她的脸被雨水打湿了，头发被吹到了眼睛里。

“上帝会派人来的！”她说，“他一定会的！我知道他一定会的！”

“他派谁来？天使吗？”丹尼尔恼怒地笑起来，眼睛望着狂暴而空旷的大海。

但道森夫人还在尖叫。“肯定 有人会来！”她喊道，“我们不能死在这儿！再去礁石顶上看一遍！告诉他们我的孩子们在这儿！”

“您的孩子们已经……”但他不敢说出来。他很生自己的气，转过身爬到礁石顶上。狂风在他耳边呼啸。他远眺灯塔，但什么也没看见，只有一波未平一波又起的海浪。“我恨这大海！”他想，“它就像一只长着一百颗白牙的灰色巨兽！我恨它！它想杀光我们所有人！”

就在这时，他看见了那只小船。

他看见了它，就那么一秒钟。小船在一个白浪的浪尖上。它一会儿被波浪挡住，一会儿又再次出现。再消失，再出现。而且它正在靠近！那艘小船上有两个人！他抓住礁石，目不转睛地看着。小船近了，又近了。突然一个大山般的巨浪卷过来，龇着白牙，来势汹汹，小船隐没在它的身后。

“不！”丹尼尔喊起来，“不，求求你，上帝！不要！”

小船又出现在浪尖上，四周被浪花包围着。船桨朝上举起，不在水里。有那么一刻小船开始往一侧倾斜，这时船桨没入水里，小船便顺着波浪降下来。现在丹尼尔可以看清船里的两个人了，一个男人和一个年轻的姑娘。

他站起来跑下礁石，又哭又笑。“这下好了，道森夫人！”他喊道，“没事了！往那儿看！看！您的天使来了！”





10Too Many People


Too Many People

Grace looked quickly behind her, and saw the people on the rock. They were waving, shouting, laughing. But there were eight, nine, perhaps ten of them! Too many for this small boat.

She looked back at the waves and pulled hard and carefully with her oars. It was more than a kilometre around the islands from the lighthouse to the ship, and every wave, every rock was different and dangerous. She was tired now, but the job was not finished. The wrecked ship on Harker's Rock was still fifty metres away.

'How many can you see, Grace?' her father shouted.

She looked again. 'Ten... twelve perhaps,' she said. 'It's too many, father. We'll all drown, if they try to get in.'

'Yes. Put me on the rock, lass, and then take the boat out again,' shouted William. 'I'll talk to them. We can't take more than five, the first time.'

It was very dangerous near the rock. In the best place, the waves went up and down two or three metres every minute. 'If we make one mistake,' Grace thought, 'the boat will break into fifty small pieces, and we'll be on the rock with the others.'

Carefully, slowly, Grace and her father tried to get the boat near the rock, but three times they had to pull away at the last minute. Then, the fourth time, William Darling jumped. The passengers pulled him onto the rock.

Grace quickly rowed the boat out to sea again. She was alone in the boat now, and the boat moved differently. She was tired, and her arms and back were hurting. But she knew about boats. 'Watch the sea all the time.' she told herself. 'The waves must meet the front of the boat first, or the boat will turn over. Forget the cold, and the rain, and the wet. God will help me.'

On the rock, William Darling spoke quickly. 'I'm going to take the woman back with me,' he said. 'And that man there, with the broken leg. Then I need three strong men, to help me row the boat.' He looked at Daniel Donovan, and two others. 'You, man, and you, and you. The others must wait here. We'll come back for you later.'

'No, by God! Why me?' shouted James Kelly. 'I want to come now!'

'You're going to stay here, sir!' shouted William angrily. 'Don't you understand? If you get in the boat, we'll all drown!'

'And my children,' cried Mrs Dawson, 'don't forget my children!'

William looked at her unhappily. He held out his arms. 'Give the children to me, mother,' he said.

Carefully, he took the boy and the girl from her, and put the little bodies on the rock, near the sea. They were dead and cold. 'They are in God's hands, mother,' he said. Then he spoke quickly and quietly to Daniel Donovan. 'When the boat comes, help me get the woman in. We can't take her children.'

Daniel agreed. William put his arm around Mrs Dawson, and waved to Grace.

Carefully, slowly, she rowed the boat in to the rock. It was harder without her father. The wind and the waves moved the boat more quickly, and Grace was very tired now. One mistake meant death for them all. She came closer — twenty metres, ten, seven, five... A big wave lifted the boat, then a smaller one behind it. She pulled hard on the oars, and threw a rope to a man on the rock. Then her father got into the boat, with a woman in his arms. She was screaming.

'My children! Bring the children, please!'

'No, mother.' William Darling took the oars. 'Help her, Grace.'

Grace went to the back of the boat with the woman, and held her. Daniel Donovan and two other men got in. They were carrying the man with the broken leg. The front of the boat was very near the rock now—too near. Grace looked behind her, and saw a big wave.

'Pull, father!' she shouted. 'Pull hard!' She stood up, and pushed against the rock with an oar. The boat was very heavy now, with all these people in it.

William pulled hard with his oars. The big wave came in, and broke into white water all around them. But the boat did not hit the rock. William pulled again, and shouted. 'You men help me! Take the oars. One each!'

The little boat was very full. The sides were only just above the water, and often the water came in. Grace threw it out with her hat. The wind and waves were against them now, and the four men had to row hard. But slowly, very slowly, the lighthouse came nearer. At last, from the top of the waves, they could see Thomasin Darling. She was standing in front of the lighthouse, and waving to them.

They were very tired when they got to the lighthouse. William and Daniel carried the man with the broken leg into the kitchen, and Grace and her mother helped Mrs Dawson.

Inside the kitchen, William smiled at his daughter. 'You did a good job, lass,' he said. 'Thank you.'

'I'll come back again with you, father,' she said.

'No,' he said. 'You're too tired. I'll take two of these.' He looked at Daniel and the other two men. 'Which are the strongest?' he asked.

Daniel was very tired. There was a fire in the kitchen — a warm, beautiful fire. He wanted to lie down in front of the fire and go to sleep for a long, long time. But William Darling's quiet brown eyes were looking at him.

'I'll come with you,' Daniel said.

'I'll come too,' said Thomas Buchanan.

William Darling smiled. 'Good men,' he said. 'Can you two men row as well as my daughter?'

Daniel looked at Grace, who was busy helping Mrs Dawson. She looked very small, here, in the kitchen — like any young woman. 'I'll try,' he said.

'Right,' said William. 'Come on then.'

So Daniel and Thomas Buchanan followed the old lighthouseman away from the warm kitchen fire, out into the rain and wind again. Daniel looked at the angry sea with its terrible waves, and he felt cold and frightened. He remembered the small young woman alone in the boat by Harker's Rock. 'Great God,' he thought. 'You made that girl strong, like an angel. Make me strong, too, like her.'

The Times 　　London, 19th September 1838

Mr Darling and his young daughter saved nine people from the wreck of the For farshire . The storm lasted for three days, and they stayed all that time with the Darlings in the lighthouse.

Queen Victoria thinks that Grace Darling is one of the finest young women in this country, and she is writing to thank her. One hundred years from now, people will remember this day.

different adj. unlike in form, quality, amount, or nature 不同的

different

hurt v. to have or produce a feeling of physical pain or discomfort （使）疼痛，引起疼痛

hurt

stay v. to continue to be in a place or condition 留下，保持

stay

mean v. to have as a consequence; bring about 造成，导致

mean

at last after a consider-able length of time; finally 终于，最终

at last

last v. to continue in time; go on 持续，延续

last

fine adj. of high quality 很好的，优秀的

fine





10 ．人太多了


格雷丝回头迅速扫了一眼，看到了礁石上的人。他们挥着手，呼喊着，大笑着。但一共有八个、九个，可能十个人！对于这艘小船来说，人太多了。

她回头看着海浪，用力而小心地划着桨。从灯塔到沉船，绕着群岛一路过来有一公里多路程，而且每股海浪、每处暗礁都不一样且各藏凶险。她现在很累了，但任务还没完成。哈克礁上的轮船残骸还在五十米之外。

“你看到有多少人，格雷丝？”她的父亲喊道。

她又看了一遍。“十个……也许是十二个，”她说，“人太多了，爸爸。如果他们都要上来，我们全都会淹死的。”

“是的。把我放到礁石上，女儿，然后再把船划出去，”威廉喊道，“我跟他们谈谈。我们第一次最多只能带五个人。”

礁石附近非常危险。即使在情况最好的地方，波浪每分钟也要起伏两三米。“一旦出错，”格雷丝想，“船就会撞得粉碎，我们就得和其他人一起待在礁石上。”

格雷丝和父亲试图将船小心地、缓缓地靠近礁石，但是试了三次，每次都不得不在最后一刻把船划开。终于在第四次，威廉·达林跳了出去。乘客们把他拉上礁石。

格雷丝迅速将小船划回海里。现在她一个人在船上，船的行进与之前也不一样。她很累，胳臂和背都很疼。但是她知道该怎么划船。“要一直注意海，”她告诉自己，“海浪必须先碰到船头，否则就会翻船。忘记寒冷，忘记雨水，忘记浑身的潮湿。上帝会帮助我的。”

礁石上，威廉·达林飞快地说着话：“我要带上这位女士，”他说，“还有那边那位先生，腿骨折的那位。我还需要三位强壮的先生，来帮我划船。”他看着丹尼尔·多诺万和另外两人，“你，先生，还有你，还有你。其他人在这里等着，我们一会儿回来接你们。”

“不，老天作证！为什么是我？”詹姆斯·凯利喊道，“我想现在就去！”

“你得留在这里，先生！”威廉怒吼道，“你不懂吗？如果你上了船，我们都会淹死！”

“还有我的孩子，”道森夫人哭喊着，“别忘了我的孩子们！”

威廉不快地看着她。他伸出手，说：“把他们给我，孩子妈妈。”

他小心地把男孩和女孩接过来，把两个小小的身体放在靠近海的礁石上。他们已经死了，身体冰冷。“他们已经在上帝手里了，妈妈。”说完，他迅速而平静地对丹尼尔·多诺万说：“船一来，帮我把这位女士弄上去。我们不能带着她的孩子。”

丹尼尔同意了。威廉搂着道森夫人，向格雷丝挥手。

她谨慎而缓慢地划着船靠近礁石。父亲不在，划船变得更加艰难。风浪对小船的冲击更快了，而且格雷丝现在非常疲惫。一个错误就会导致所有人丧生。她靠近了——二十米，十米，七米，五米……一个巨浪将小船托起，接着又一个小浪。她努力地划着桨，向礁石上的一个人扔出了一条绳子。片刻后，她的父亲上了船，胳臂里搂着一个女人，女人在尖叫。

“我的孩子！带上孩子们，求求你了！”

“不行，孩子妈妈。”威廉·达林接过桨。“你来照顾她，格雷丝。”

格雷丝和女人一起走到船尾并扶住她。丹尼尔·多诺万和另外两个男人也上来了。他们抬着断了腿的男人。船头现在很靠近礁石——太近了。格雷丝一回头，看到一个巨浪。

“快划，爸爸！”她喊道，“用力划！”她站起来，用一只桨在礁石上使劲一撑。小船承载着这么多人，现在变得非常沉。

威廉奋力划桨。大浪卷过来，在他们四周溅起白色的浪花。但是船没有撞到礁石。威廉接着划，喊道：“男人们动手帮我！拿起桨，一人一只！”

小船满载，船舷刚刚高出水面，不时有水灌进来。格雷丝用帽子将水泼出去。现在他们逆着风浪前进，四个男人必须使劲划。但是慢慢地，十分缓慢地，灯塔近了。最后，他们在浪尖上时，可以看得见托马辛·达林了。她站在灯塔前，向他们招手。

到达灯塔时，他们都累极了。威廉和丹尼尔将断腿的男人抬进厨房，格雷丝和母亲扶着道森夫人。

在厨房里，威廉冲着女儿笑了。“你干得很好，女儿，”他说，“谢谢你。”

“我再和您去一趟，爸爸。”她说。

“不，”他说，“你太累了。我从他们中找两人带去。”他看着丹尼尔和另外两个男人，问：“哪两个最强壮？”

丹尼尔非常累。厨房里有炉火——温暖而美丽的炉火。他想躺在炉火前，长长久久地睡上一觉。但是威廉·达林棕色的双眼正平静地看着他。

“我跟您去。”丹尼尔说。

“我也去。”托马斯·布坎南说。

威廉·达林笑了。“好样儿的，”他说，“你们两个男人能划得和我女儿一样好吗？”

丹尼尔看着格雷丝，她正忙着照顾道森夫人。在这儿，在这个厨房里，她看起来很瘦小——和一般的年轻姑娘没什么两样。“我会尽力。”他说。

“好，”威廉说，“那么来吧。”

于是丹尼尔和托马斯·布坎南尾随着这位年老的灯塔守望人离开温暖的厨房炉火，再次回到风雨中。丹尼尔看着怒海狂涛，感觉又冷又怕。他回想起哈克礁旁那个瘦小的姑娘独自划船的景象。“伟大的上帝！”他想，“是您让那个姑娘充满力量，就像天使一样。让我也充满力量吧，就像她一样。”

《泰晤士报》　　伦敦，1838年9月19日

达林先生和他年轻的女儿从福法尔郡号残骸中救出了九个人。暴风雨持续了三天，他们一直和达林一家一起待在灯塔里。

维多利亚女王认为格雷丝·达林是本国最杰出的年轻女性之一，并写信向她致谢。一百年后，人们仍会记住这一天。





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


Before Reading

1．Read the story introduction on the first page of the book. How much do you know now about the story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) The story is true.

YES □／NO □

2) Grace Darling was a young man.

YES □／NO □

3) The story happened in 1838.

YES □／NO □

4) The For farshire was a ship.

YES □／NO □

5) The story happened off the northeast coast of Scotland.

YES □／NO □

6) It was a hot, dry night.

YES □／NO □

7) There was a wooden boat and an iron ship.

YES □／NO □

8) Some people were dying of cold on a rock.

YES □／NO □

9) Grace Darling was very frightened.

YES □／NO □

10) Grace Darling became famous.

YES □／NO □

2．Which of these things can mean danger for a ship at sea? Explain why or why not.

strong wind

fish

islands

blue skies

snow

very deep water

rocks

big waves

other big ships

sea birds

very hot sun

small sailing boats

heavy rain

storms

the dark





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


While Reading

1．Read Chapter 1. On the ship Daniel Donovan starts to feel very afraid. Use these words from the story to complete the text. (Use each word once.)

angel, broken, dark, engines, frightened, happen, Land, ship, stopped, waves, wind, worse

I feel very ______. The ship's ______ have ______ down and the big paddle wheels have ______.

The weather is getting ______ and it's nearly ______ now. We can't see the ______ any more. There is a very strong ______ and big ______ are hitting the side of the ______.

Everybody on the For farshire is afraid. We don't know what is going to ______. We need an ______ to save us!

2．Read Chapter 2, and then answer these questions.

1) Who was in the lighthouse that night?

2) Where were Grace's brothers?

3) How old were Grace, William and Thomasin?

4) What did William and Grace do to the lantern?

5) What was the lantern for?

6) If there was a shipwreck, what did William have to do?

3．Read Chapters 3 and 4. Here are some untrue sentences about them. Change them into true sentences.

1) The ship's engines were new.

2) The ship's engineer could mend the engines.

3) Daniel Donovan wanted the ship to stay at sea.

4) Grace never got up in the night to help her father.

5) They carried the oars into the kitchen.

6) William watched the light, and Grace went to bed.

4．Read Chapters 5 and 6. Who said this?

1) 'I'm so frightened. Do you think we're going to die?'

2) 'Rocks! There are rocks in front of us, rocks all around!'

3) 'There's a ship on Harker's Rock.'

4) 'I can see no one, but my eyes are old.'

5) 'If there are people alive on that ship now, you cannot save them, William.'

6) 'If there is someone alive, we can't just leave them to die.'

5．Read Chapters 7, 8 and 9. Choose the best question-word for these questions, and then answer them.

Why/Who/What

1) ... prayed on the rock in a loud voice?

2) ... did Daniel want everybody to do?

3) ... was it difficult to stand at the top of the rock?

4) ... first saw the people on the rock?

5) ... was Grace angry?

6) ... was the matter with Mrs Dawson's children?

7) ... first saw the boat?

6．Before you read Chapter 10 (the title is "Too Many People"), can you guess what happens? Tick one box each time.

1) Grace gets very tired and cannot row any more.

YES □／NO □

2) Grace falls into the sea and William pulls her back into the boat.

YES □／NO □

3) Mrs Dawson falls into the sea and drowns.

YES □／NO □

4) William and Grace can only take five people in the boat.

YES □／NO □

5) They leave Mrs Dawson's dead children on the rock.

YES □／NO □

6) The rest of the people on the rock die.

YES □／NO □

7) William takes the boat back a second time and saves more people.

YES □／NO □

7．Read Chapter 10, then answer these questions.

1) What did William and Grace do when they arrived at the rock?

2) Why did William need two strong men?

3) What did Grace use her hat for?

4) Who went back in the boat the second time?

5) How many people did William and Grace save?





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


After Reading

1．Thomasin Darling wrote a letter to her son William, telling him about the stormy night. Can you find and correct the twelve mistakes in it?

The Lighthouse, Longstone Island

Dear William,

I have so much to tell you! We have had a terrible storm here. It lasted for forty-eight hours, and the waves were more than two metres high!

A ship called the Scotland was wrecked on the beach. It was a small ship and it broke into four pieces. All of the passengers climbed onto Harker's Rock.

I was the first person to see the shipwreck and the passengers waving on the rock. Your father and Grace then got the boat out and rowed to the rock, but only four people could get in our little boat. The passengers did not help to row the boat back, and then your father and one other man went to the rock a second time and saved four more passengers.

Your sister Grace is now a famous heroine, and the King is writing to thank her — it's in all the newspapers!

Come home soon.

Love from Mother

2．Find the answers to this crossword in the story.

　ACROSS

1 Grace watched the ship through a _______. (9)

4 The ship was going _______, from Hull to Dundee. (5)

6 The name of the ship. (11)

9 You row a boat with two of these. (4)

12 Daniel Donovan's job. (8)

13 Land which is not an island. (8)

14 To move a boat with oars. (3)

15 The ship was _______ in 1838. (7)

　DOWN

2 The Darling family lived in this. (10)

3 Grace put _______ in the big lantern. (3)

5 Grace Darling was a famous _______. (7)

7 Daniel Donovan called Grace Darling an '_______'. (5)

8 A man who works on a ship. (6)

10 The floor on a ship. (4)

11 Longstone Island was one of the _______ Islands. (5)

3．A reporter asked Daniel Donovan about the second journey to Harker's Rock. Complete their conversation. (Use as many words as you like.)

Reporter: What happened when you arrived at the lighthouse?

Daniel: William Darling asked _______.

Reporter: How did you feel about that?

Daniel: I wanted _______ but _______.

Reporter: So the two of you rowed back to Harker's Rock.

Daniel: No, there _______.

Reporter: Was the storm still bad?

Daniel: Yes, the waves _______.

Reporter: Were you afraid?

Daniel: Very. But Grace Darling _______.

Reporter: And what do you think of Grace Darling?

Daniel: She's _______.

4．William Darling took the woman and the man with the broken leg first. Imagine that you are saving people from a shipwreck, but your boat is small and you can only take four people. Which of these people do you save and why?

1) A mother and her young child

2) A doctor (older woman)

3) A nurse (young man)

4) A bus-driver (older man)

5) A schoolboy (16 years old)

6) A famous film star (young woman)

7) A teacher (older woman)

8) A businessman (older man)

5．Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with these sentences? Explain why.

1) The Captain of the For farshire was only doing his job. He wanted to take his ship and passengers to Scotland, and he was right not to go back to land.

2) Thomasin Darling didn't want Grace and William to go to the rock. She was right because it was a very stupid and dangerous thing to do.

3) Grace Darling was a famous heroine only because she was a young woman. William Darling, Daniel Donovan, and Thomas Buchanan were also heroes.

4) Grace Darling is not a special story. Grace and William Darling were only doing their jobs. People like firemen and policemen save people every day.

6．Here are some different titles for the story. Which ones are good (G) and which are not good (NG)? Can you say why?

Grace and William

Darling Heroine

The Angel from the Lighthouse

Shipwreck

The Captain Who Didn't Go Back

A Stormy Night

The End of the

For farshire

Harker's Rock

京权图字：01-2006-3298

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

钢琴之恋 = The Piano／（英）博德（Border, R.）著；彭燕译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2014.11 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6839-8

Ⅰ．钢…　Ⅱ．①博…②彭…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②中篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第110797号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 易　璐

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年8月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6839-8

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


音乐是从哪儿来的？是可以学会的吗？还是说，它仅仅是被赐予的才能，没有人知道它来自哪里？

这个故事里的小男孩在学校成绩不好，无论是语文还是数学他都不擅长。他喜欢和其他孩子一起唱歌，但是唱得并不出色。他第一次找工作就碰了壁。他是个好孩子，但没有什么特殊的才能。

然而有一天，他发现了一架钢琴。他还发现自己会弹钢琴。所以，或许我们可以说，不是他发现了音乐，而是音乐找到了他。





THE PIANO


Where does music come from? Is it something that you learn? Or is it simply given to you — and nobody knows where it comes from?

The young boy in this story is not good at school. He is not good at learning words or numbers. He likes to sing with the other boys and girls; but he is not good at singing. He does not get the first job that he tries to get. He is a nice boy, but he is not good at anything special.

And then he finds a piano. He also finds that he can play the piano. So, perhaps we can say that he does not find music, but that music finds him.





1In the Dressing-room


In the Dressing-room

SIR ANTHONY EVANS PLAYS LISZT. The words above the door of the theatre were a metre high. On the wall there was a big picture of Sir Anthony at the piano. Hundreds of people were waiting outside the ticket office. It was Sir Anthony's eightieth birthday concert and everybody wanted a ticket. I had a special ticket, because I was a newspaper reporter. I wanted to talk to the famous pianist before his concert. I showed my ticket to the doorman and went into the theatre. Then I walked upstairs to the dressing-rooms.

On my way upstairs I thought about the famous pianist. I was a little afraid. My mouth was dry and my hands were shaking.

I arrived outside the dressing-room.

There was a big gold star on the door.

I knocked, and a tall man opened it. He was very old, but his eyes were blue and bright. He was wearing black trousers and a beautiful white shirt. He had a lot of straight, silvery hair. He looked just like his picture on the wall of the theatre.

'My name's Sally Hill,' I began. 'I...'

The old man saw my notebook and smiled at me.

'Don't tell me. You're a reporter. Which newspaper do you work for?'

'The Sunday Times , sir.'

'A very good newspaper. Come in and sit down. Ask your questions. We were young once, weren't we, Linda? But of course that was a long time ago.'

He turned to a tall woman, who was standing in the corner. She smiled at me with friendly brown eyes. 'So this is Lady Evans,' I thought. 'What a nice face she has! She looks like a farmer's wife.'

I was not afraid any more. I sat down and opened my notebook.

'Tell me about yourself, please, Sir Anthony. Did you come from a musical family? Did you start to learn the piano when you were three, like Mozart?'

The famous pianist smiled. 'No, no, my dear. I am the first musician in my family. And I was fourteen years old before I touched a piano for the first time.' He saw the surprise on my face. 'We have a little time before my concert. I'll tell you my story. It's a strange story, but every word of it is true. You see, I left school when I was thirteen. Everybody called me Tony in those days. I worked on a farm...' It was an exciting story and he told it well. At first I tried to write everything down in my notebook. Then the pen fell from my hand and I just listened. I was lost in Sir Anthony's wonderful story. He told me about an old school behind a high wall in a dirty street. There was broken glass on top of the wall. The school yard was very small. As he spoke, pictures came into my mind. I saw a little boy called Tony Evans, playing football with an old tin...

pianist n. a person who plays the piano 钢琴家，钢琴演奏者

pianist

shake v. to move forcibly or quickly up and down or to and fro 发抖，颤抖

shake

Lady n. used as the title of the wife of a knight 夫人，太太（用作对爵士妻子的尊称）

Lady

surprise n. the feeling you have when something unexpected or astonishing happens 惊奇，诧异

surprise

exciting adj. arousing great interest or enthusiasm 刺激的，令人兴奋的

exciting

yard n. a piece of enclosed ground esp. attached to a building or used for a particular purpose 天井，庭院

yard

tin n. a metal container used for preserving food （存放食物的）金属盒

tin





1 ．化妆间里


安东尼·埃文斯爵士演奏会。 曲目：李斯特。横幅张挂在剧院门口，每个字都高达一米。墙上挂着一幅安东尼爵士弹奏钢琴的巨幅肖像画。售票处门外排着几百人的长队。这是安东尼爵士的八十寿辰音乐会，每个人都想要张票。由于我是报社记者，所以得到了一张记者专用票。我想在音乐会开始之前采访这位著名的钢琴家。我把票出示给看门人，然后走进了剧院，朝楼上的化妆间走去。

我一边上楼，一边想着这位著名的钢琴家。我有点害怕，我的嘴巴发干，手也在抖。

我来到化妆间门外。

门上有一颗很大的金色的星星。

我敲了敲门，一位高个子男士开了门。他的年纪很大了，可是眼睛湛蓝湛蓝的，眼神明亮。他穿着黑色的长裤和漂亮的白衬衫，满头笔直的银发。他看上去跟剧院墙上的那幅画里一模一样。

“我叫萨莉·希尔，”我开口道，“我……”

老人看见我的笔记本，对我露出了微笑。

“啊，不用说，你是记者。你是哪一家报社的？”

“《星期日时报》，先生。”

“那是家很好的报纸。进来，坐吧。有什么问题就问吧。我们也曾经年轻过，对不对，琳达？不过，那当然是很久很久以前的事情了。”

他转向角落里站着的一位高个子女士。她那双褐色的眼睛含着友好的笑意看着我。“那么，这一位一定是埃文斯夫人了，”我心想，“她的脸庞真慈祥！她看上去就像农夫的妻子。”

我不再感到害怕了。我坐下来，摊开笔记本。

“请告诉我一些关于您自己的事情，安东尼爵士。您出身于音乐世家吗？您是不是像莫扎特那样，三岁就开始学习弹钢琴了？”

这位著名的钢琴演奏家笑道：“不，亲爱的孩子，不是这样。我是我们家出的头一个音乐家。一直到14岁，我才第一次接触钢琴。”他看到我脸上讶异的神色，接着说：“音乐会开始之前，我们能有一小会儿时间，让我把我的故事讲给你听吧。这是一个不可思议的故事，但字字句句都是真的。是这样的，我13岁就离开了学校。那会儿他们都叫我托尼。我在一个农场里干活儿……”

他娓娓道出了一个令人激动的故事。起初，我试图把他说的每一句话都记在笔记本上。然而，听着听着，笔从我手中滑落，我只是投入地听他讲述。我沉浸在安东尼爵士那个奇妙的故事当中。他向我讲到一条肮脏的小巷里高墙内的一所旧学校，墙头插着碎玻璃，学校的院子很窄小。他讲着讲着，我脑海里渐渐浮现出这样一幅画面：一个名叫托尼·埃文斯的小男孩，把一个旧罐头盒当足球踢着……





2A Poor Boy


A Poor Boy

The teacher's name was Mr Grey. He was grey, like his name: he was old and grey and tired. Everything about him was grey: grey suit, grey shirt, grey hair and a long, thin, grey face. When he smiled the children saw his long, grey teeth. But he did not often smile. Mr Grey did not enjoy his job. He did not like children.

'Why does he work here?' one of the children asked one day. 'He doesn't like us. '

'But he likes the long school holidays!' said Tony. The other children laughed. They thought that was a very clever answer.

But Tony was not a clever boy. He was big and slow and silent. He did not enjoy his lessons. Usually he just sat at his desk and waited quietly for four o'clock to come, when he could go home.

But Tuesday mornings were different, because Tuesday was music day. Every Tuesday morning an old lady called Mrs Lark came to the school. Mrs Lark played the piano and the children sang. She was not a very good pianist, but she liked children and she enjoyed her work. She knew a lot of songs too. Every Tuesday her fat little fingers flew like birds up and down the keys of the piano. The children sang like birds, too. Then twelve o'clock came. Mrs Lark said 'goodbye' and locked up the piano for another week.

Tony did not often hear music. His family was poor, and poor people did not often hear music. There was no TV or radio in those days. There were concerts in the town, of course, but poor people did not go to concerts. Sometimes an Italian street musician came to town. He had a little piano on wheels, and a poor thin monkey which sat on top of it. The people came out of their houses to listen to his music. Then the monkey went round with a little tin cup. 'Give us a penny!' sang the musician. But when the monkey came back, the tin cup was always empty. The musician shook his head and pushed his little piano away.

There were six children in the Evans family, and Tony was the oldest. They lived in a very small house at the end of a long, grey street. The toilet was outside, in the yard. There was no bathroom. Everybody washed in the kitchen. On Saturday evenings everybody in the family had a bath one after another in an old tin bath in front of the fire. It took all evening. Every Monday Mrs Evans washed all the family's clothes in the tin bath. But the Evans were clean and they had enough to eat. Tony did not feel poor, because all his friends were poor too.

In those days, poor children usually left school when they were thirteen. Most of Tony's friends found jobs in shops or factories in the town. Tony did not want to work in a shop or a factory. But he needed a job because his family needed the money.

A few days after his thirteenth birthday, Tony left school too. He began to look for a job. But he was unlucky. The factory did not want him. The shops did not want him. Then his mother thought, 'What about farming?'

One hot summer afternoon she decided to take her son to a farm outside the town.

'I worked on Mr Wood's farm when I was young,' she told Tony. 'Then I met your father and we moved to the town. But I enjoyed farm work, and I think you'll like it too... I wrote to Mr Wood last week and asked him to give you a job on the farm. That will be better than the factory.'

grey adj. between black and white in colour; gloomy; pale 灰色的；阴郁的；面色苍白的

grey

tin n. a soft white metal 锡

tin

because conj. for the reason that; since 因为

because





2 ．一个穷孩子


这里的老师是格雷先生。他的人和他的名字一样陈腐老套。他年岁大了，头发灰白，看上去疲惫不堪。他身上的每一样东西都是灰色的。他的外套是灰色的，衬衫是灰色的，头发是花白的，一张脸也瘦长而苍白。他咧嘴一笑，孩子们就能看到他那长长的、灰白的牙齿。但他不常笑。格雷先生对他的工作一点也不热心，他不喜欢孩子们。

“他干吗干这份工作？”一天，有个孩子问道，“他又不喜欢我们。”

“可他喜欢学校长长的假期！”托尼说。其他孩子纷纷笑了起来，觉得他的回答很聪明。

不过，托尼可不是个聪明的孩子。他个子高大，慢吞吞的，话也很少。他不喜欢听讲，平常他总是坐在自己的座位上静静地等着，等到4点钟，他就可以回家了。

但是，星期二的早晨却不一样，因为这一天是唱歌的日子。每个星期二早晨，一位被大家称作拉克夫人的老太太都会到学校来，她弹钢琴，孩子们唱歌。她的琴弹得不太好，可她喜欢孩子们，也喜欢这份工作。她会弹的曲子真不少。每个星期二，她胖胖的、短小的手指头都会像小鸟一样在琴键上灵活地上下跳跃，孩子们唱得也像小鸟一样动听。一转眼，12点就到了。拉克夫人说声“再见”，把钢琴锁上，再想唱歌就要等下个星期了。

托尼难得听到音乐。他家境贫寒，而穷苦人家总是没什么音乐可听的。那个时候既没有电视，也没有收音机，城里当然也举行音乐会，但穷人是去不起的。城里偶尔也会来一个意大利流浪琴师。他有架带轮子的小钢琴，琴上还坐着一只可怜的小瘦猴。人们纷纷走出门来听他演奏。接着，小猴就拿着一只小小的锡杯在人群里转一圈。“施舍点吧！”琴师喝道。可是小猴回来的时候，杯子总是空的。琴师只有摇摇头，推着小小的钢琴走了。

埃文斯家有六个孩子，托尼是老大。他们一家住在一条阴暗的长巷子尽头一幢很小很小的房子里。马桶在外面的院子里。家里没地方洗漱，全家人只得在厨房里将就。每到周六晚上，一家人就一个接一个在炉火前用一个旧的锡澡盆洗澡，要一整晚才能全部洗完。每个星期一，埃文斯太太都要把一家人的衣服泡在锡澡盆里洗干净。但是埃文斯一家衣着干净，也能吃得饱饭。托尼不觉得自己家穷，因为他的朋友们也都很穷。

那时候，穷人家的孩子往往到了13岁就辍学了。托尼的朋友们大多在城里的商店或是工厂里找了活儿干。而托尼既不愿意去商店，也不愿意进工厂。可他需要一份活计，因为家里需要这点钱。

13岁生日过完没几天，托尼也离开了学校，他开始找工作。可是他的运气不好。工厂不要他，商店也不要他。然后他的母亲想到：“种田怎么样？”

一个炎热的夏日午后，她决定把儿子带到郊外的一个农场去。

“年轻时，我曾在伍德先生的农场里干过活儿，”她对托尼说，“然后我遇见了你父亲，我们搬到了城里。可是我喜欢干农活，我觉着你也会喜欢的……我上个星期给伍德先生写了封信，让他给你在农场里找份活儿干，总比在工厂里强。”





3A Farmer's Boy


A Farmer's Boy

Tony and his mother got on a bus in the middle of the town. At first they drove through streets of small, grey houses. Then the bus left the town and drove along a country road.

The bus stopped in every village. Tony saw green fields and small, quiet villages. Every house had a garden. The smell of the flowers came in through the open windows of the bus.

At last the bus stopped. Tony could see a river and an old bridge. A small road ran across the bridge, through the fields and over a hill. 'Come on, Tony,' said his mother. They got out of the bus and walked two kilometres in the hot sun. There were white and yellow flowers at the side of the road. Tony did not know their names. He wanted to know more about them. He wanted to know more about the trees too. There were no flowers or trees in his street.

He looked at the cows in the fields.

'I've never seen a real cow,' he said to himself. He watched them moving very slowly through the long, green grass. They looked big and quiet.

Tony and his mother arrived at the farmhouse and walked through the farmyard. Chickens were looking for food. A fat white cat sat on a wall and watched them with sleepy eyes.

Mr Wood came to the door and spoke to Tony's mother. 'Hullo, Betty. It's nice to see you again. Thank you for your letter. How are you?' They talked together like old friends.

Tony stood at the door. He felt lost and uncomfortable. But the farmer smiled at him.

'Is this your son, Betty?' he asked.

'Yes. This is Anthony — but we call him Tony at home. He left school two weeks ago. He's a good boy, and he's very strong. Please give him a job, Mr Wood. We need the money. We've got six children, you know.'

The farmer looked at Tony. 'How old are you, boy?' he asked.

'Thirteen, sir.'

'Do you like the country?'

'Yes, sir,' said Tony.

'Would you like to work for me, Tony?' asked Mr Wood. 'Would you like to be a farm boy?'

Tony thought about the factory and the shops. The shops were bad, but the factory was worse. When people came out of the factory in the evening their faces looked white and ill. 'Nothing can be worse than that,' he thought. He looked into the farmer's smiling red face. 'Yes, sir,' he said. 'Yes, please.'

His mother was right. Tony was a good, strong boy and he worked very hard for Mr Wood. The old farmer did not pay him much money. Tony ate his meals in the kitchen and he slept in a little room at the top of the farmhouse. But the farmer was kind to him and taught him a lot. Mr Wood had no sons. He had one daughter. Her name was Linda, and she was a year younger than Tony. Mr Wood loved Linda dearly, but he wanted a son very much. He was like a father to Tony.

Tony was happy. At the end of every day his back was tired and his legs hurt, but he slept like a baby. He ate Mrs Wood's good country food. He drank a lot of milk. Soon he needed new clothes. He sent his old clothes home for his brothers. He sent his family money, too.

Sometimes Tony visited his family. He enjoyed those visits, but he was always happy to leave again. 'I'm a country boy now,' he thought.

In the school holidays Pip and his brother John came to the farm. Pip was seventeen and John was sixteen, but they were both still at school. Their father had a large shoe shop in the town. He wanted them to go to college and learn to be businessmen. But the boys spent all their holidays on Mr Wood's farm.

'I want to be a farmer,' said Pip.

'That's right,' said John. 'Farming is the best job in the world!'

'But you just come here in the summer!' said Tony. 'It isn't always summer, you know. The sun doesn't always shine. Farmers work hard in the winter too. It's a hard, dirty job.'

'But you like it!' said John, and he was right. Tony liked his job very much.

bridge n. a structure carrying a road, path, railway, etc., across a stream, road, railway, etc. 桥

bridge

uncomfortable adj. not comfortable; uneasy 不舒服的，不自在的

uncomfortable

shine v. to emit or reflect light; glow 照耀，发光

shine





3 ．乡下少年


托尼和母亲在镇中心上了一辆公共汽车。起初，他们穿过一排排矮小的灰色房子，然后，汽车开出城外，开上了一条乡间小路。

公共汽车每到一个村子都会停下来。托尼看到绿色的田野和僻静的小村落。每座房子都带有花园，花香从开着的车窗透了进来。

最后车停了下来。托尼看到一条小河和一座老旧的桥。一条小路越过小桥，穿过田野，延伸至一座小山丘的另一边。“来吧，托尼。”他的母亲说道。他们下了车，在热辣的阳光下走了两公里路。路边开着白色和黄色的花，托尼不知道它们的名字，他想更多地了解这些花，也想多了解了解那些树。在他住的那条街上，既没有花，也没有树。

他看着田野里的奶牛。

“我还从没见过真正的奶牛。”他自言自语道。他看着奶牛在高高的绿草中缓缓地穿行。它们看起来既高大又安静。

托尼和母亲来到农场里的房子那儿，穿过房子前的庭院。小鸡正在四处觅食。一只胖胖的白猫坐在墙上，睡眼蒙胧地看着他们。

伍德先生来到门口，对托尼的母亲说道：“你好啊，贝蒂，真高兴又见到你了。谢谢你的来信。你还好吗？”他们像老朋友一样交谈起来。

托尼站在门口，他有点不知所措，觉得不大自在。可农场主对他笑了。

“这就是你的儿子吧，贝蒂？”他问道。

“是的。这就是安东尼——可是我们在家里都叫他托尼。他是在两个星期前离开学校的。他是个好孩子，身体也很壮实。请您给他找点活干吧，伍德先生。我们需要钱，要知道，我们家里有六个孩子呢。”

农场主看着托尼。“你多大了，孩子？”他问道。

“13岁，先生。”

“你喜欢乡下吗？”

“喜欢，先生。”托尼答道。

“你愿意替我干活吗，托尼？”伍德先生问道，“愿意做个在农场干活的乡下孩子吗？”

托尼想了想工厂，又想了想商店。商店的情况不怎么样，可是工厂就更糟。人们晚上走出厂门的时候，一个个面色苍白，一脸病容。“没什么会比那更糟了。”他想道。他注视着农场主那张红红的笑脸，说：“是的，我愿意，先生，我愿意替您干活。”

他母亲说得没错。托尼是个壮实的好孩子，他替伍德先生干活很卖力。老农场主给他的报酬不多。托尼在厨房里吃饭，睡在农场楼房顶层的小阁楼里。但是农场主待他很好，而且还教给他很多东西。伍德先生没有儿子，只有一个女儿，名叫琳达，比托尼小一岁。伍德先生非常宠爱琳达，但他很想要个儿子。他待托尼如同自己的亲生孩子。

托尼很开心。每天干完活他都会觉得背酸腿痛，但是他晚上睡得很好。他吃的是伍德太太做的可口的农家饭菜，还喝很多牛奶。旧衣服很快就穿不下了，他把旧衣服寄回家给弟弟们穿，还给家里寄钱。

托尼有时候也回家看看。他喜欢回家逗留一阵子，但离开的时候也总是很高兴。“现在我是个乡下孩子了。”他这样想道。

学校放假的时候，皮普和他的弟弟约翰会到农场来。皮普17岁，约翰16岁，但兄弟俩仍旧在上学。他们的父亲在城里开了一家很大的鞋店，希望这兄弟俩能上大学，学习如何经商。但是两个男孩一到假期就来伍德先生的农场。

“我想做个农场主。”皮普说道。

“对呀，”约翰答道，“农活儿是天底下最棒的活计！”

“可是你们只有夏天才来！”托尼说道，“要知道，这里不会永远是夏天，也不会永远阳光灿烂。农夫们冬天也得辛苦劳作。这是份又累又脏的活计。”

“但是你 喜欢干农活儿啊！”约翰说道。他说得对极了，托尼的确非常喜欢自己的工作。





4An Old Piano


An Old Piano

One hot summer afternoon Tony, John and Pip were cutting the long grass. The sun was hot and they were tired. Mr Wood came into the field.

'Now, boys,' he said, 'I have a job for you.'

'He always has a job for us!' said Pip very quietly. The other boys smiled. The farmer liked to keep them busy. They walked with him to an old wooden building near the farmhouse.

'Now,' said Mr Wood. 'My new car will arrive here next week. I want this building for a garage. Get the rubbish out of the building. Then clean it really well. I want to keep the car in it.'

'What shall we do with the rubbish, Mr Wood?' asked Pip.

'Get rid of it, of course!' answered the farmer. 'Now stop asking questions, young Pip. I'm a busy man.' He walked away.

The three boys opened the doors of the building. They looked at the rubbish, then they looked at each other.

'This is going to take a long time,' said Tony.

He went to the back of the building. He saw something behind a lot of old boxes. It was very big.

'What's this?' asked Tony.

'Is it a cupboard?' asked Pip.

John came and moved some of the boxes. 'It isn't a cupboard,' he said in surprise. 'It's an old piano.'

The piano was made of beautiful, dark brown wood. Tony took off his shirt and cleaned the wood with it. He saw brightly-coloured birds, flowers and leaves. They shone like stars in the dark, dirty building. Tony opened the piano. He looked at the keys.

'We can't get rid of this,' he said. 'We really can't.' He found an old, broken chair and sat down at the piano. His fingers touched the keys. He closed his eyes. Half-forgotten music danced through his mind. His fingers began to move. They moved up and down the keys. He began to play an old song. He was suddenly very happy.

'I can play the piano,' he thought. 'Nobody taught me, but my mind tells my fingers what to do, and I can make music. '

His friends listened.

'That's beautiful,' said John. 'What is it?'

'I don't know,' said Tony.

They heard a noise behind them. Linda Wood was standing at the door. She was a tall, thin girl with long, soft brown hair. She was not beautiful, but she had big, kind brown eyes and a sweet smile. She was smiling now, and she was singing very quietly.

Tony heard her and stopped playing. He stood up. His face was red and he felt hot and uncomfortable.

'Don't stop, Tony,' said Linda.

'I've finished,' said Tony shortly. He closed the piano.

Linda came into the building. 'Look,' she said, 'Mother has sent you some cakes and milk. She asked me to bring them.'

Mrs Wood was a very good cook. The cakes were still warm... They all ate and drank.

Linda looked at the piano. 'Who taught you to play the piano, Tony?' she asked.

Tony looked down at his dirty old shoes. 'I can't play the piano,' he said.

'Yes, you can!' said Linda. 'I heard you. I have piano lessons at school, but I can't play like you. I like that song. It's called Green Fields . I've got the music at school, but I can't play it. It's too difficult for me. Do you want to borrow it?'

'I can't read music,' said Tony. 'We didn't have music lessons at my school.' He looked unhappy and thoughtful. 'Music!' thought Tony. He remembered the street musician with his little monkey. Then he thought about Mrs Lark. He remembered those wonderful Tuesday mornings, and he smiled. 'We sang a little on Tuesday mornings, that's all,' he said.

He stood and looked at the piano. 'I must have it,' he said to himself. 'I'll ask Mr Wood.'

At seven o'clock Tony washed in cold water and put on his clean shirt. Then he went to the kitchen with Pip and John. They sat down at the big kitchen table and Mrs Wood put the food on three hot plates. Then she went to have supper with Mr Wood and Linda.

Tony ate his meat and potatoes and drank two cups of strong, sweet tea. Then he had three small cakes and an apple. He was always hungry. He washed his plate and his cup and put them away.

'Now!' he thought. He got up and went to the door.

'Where are you going?' asked John.

'I want to ask Mr Wood about that piano,' said Tony. 'Pianos cost a lot of money. We must tell him about this one. Then he can decide what to do with it.'

He knocked at the door of the sitting-room.

'Come in!' said the farmer. He was reading his Farmer's Weekly . Mrs Wood was mending a hole in Linda's school dress. Linda herself was doing her homework at the table in the corner.

'Please, Mr Wood,' began Tony, 'there's an old piano in that building...'

'I don't want to know, boy!' said Mr Wood.

'You don't want to know?' said Tony. 'But a piano isn't rubbish, sir...'

'It is rubbish, boy. Take it away. Get rid of it. I want that building for my new car. Now go away. I'm tired. I've had a busy day and I want to read my newspaper.'

'But...' began Tony again.

'I don't want to know!' said Mr Wood. 'Go away!' He shook his newspaper angrily.

'Yes, Mr Wood,' said Tony. He went out and closed the door behind him. He came back into the kitchen.

'Listen — can you help me?' he said to Pip and John. 'Mr Wood doesn't want that old piano. He says I can have it. He wants the building for his new car. I can have the piano if I want it. And oh, yes — I want it very much. But where can I put it?'

'That's easy,' said Pip. 'We can put it on Mr Wood's lorry. We can take the piano to your house. Your family will love it!'

'You've never seen our house,' said Tony. 'It's very small, and there are seven people living in it. We can't take the piano there.'

'Sell it, then,' said John. 'Buy something nice with the money.'

'I don't want money,' said Tony. 'I want the piano.'

'How can I tell them?' he thought. 'How can I tell them how I feel about it?' He looked at his hands. He wanted to feel the black and white keys under his fingers again. He wanted to hear the music in his mind... 'What's happening to me?' he thought.

Pip looked at the clock. 'It's late,' he said. 'And I'm tired. I'm going to go to bed. We can think about your piano tomorrow.'

garage n. a building or indoor space in which to park or keep a motor vehicle 车库

garage

rubbish n. something that is useless or of no value 垃圾，废物

rubbish

cupboard n. a piece of furniture with a door and (usu.) shelves, in which things are stored 食橱，橱柜

cupboard

nobody pron. no person 没有人，无人

nobody

noise n. a sound, esp. a loud or unpleasant one 声音，噪声

noise

shortly adv. in a short time; soon 立刻，马上

shortly

music n. a set of written marks representing music 乐谱，曲谱

music

thoughtful adj. engaged in or given to meditation 沉思的，思考的

thoughtful

remember v. to keep in the memory; not forget 记得

remember

lorry n. a large heavy motor vehicle for transporting goods, etc. 货车，卡车

lorry





4 ．一架旧钢琴


一个炎热的夏日午后，托尼、约翰和皮普在割着那些高高的草。太阳很毒，他们都累坏了。伍德先生突然来到田里。

“喂，孩子们，”他说，“我给你们找了点活儿干。”

“他总是有活儿给我们干！”皮普小声说，另外两个孩子都笑了。农场主喜欢让他们忙个不停。他们随他一起走到农场不远处的一幢破旧的木屋那儿。

“是这样的，”伍德先生说道，“我的新车下个星期就要到了，我想把这幢房子变成车库。你们把屋里的垃圾都弄出去，然后把屋子彻底收拾干净。我想把汽车放在这里面。”

“那么垃圾怎么处理呢，伍德先生？”皮普问道。

“当然是把它们都扔掉！”农场主答道，“别问那么多了，小皮普，我忙着呢。”他说完便走了。

三个孩子打开屋门，他们看看那些没用的东西，又互相瞧瞧。

“这得花上好一会儿呢。”托尼说。

他走到屋子后面，瞧见在一大堆旧盒子后头有样东西。是个大家伙。

“这是什么？”托尼问道。

“是不是个橱柜？”皮普问道。

约翰走过来，把一些盒子挪开。“这哪儿是什么橱柜，”他吃了一惊，“这是一架旧钢琴。”

钢琴是用美丽的黑褐色木头做成的。托尼脱掉衬衫，用它擦了擦木头。他看到上面印有色彩鲜亮的飞鸟、繁花和树叶，在这座又暗又脏的房子里，它们像星星一样闪闪发亮。托尼打开钢琴，看了看琴键。

“我们不能把它扔掉，”他说，“绝对不行。”他找来一把破旧的椅子，坐在钢琴前，手指抚过琴键。他闭上眼睛，忘得差不多的音乐在脑海中跳跃。他开始移动手指，在琴键上流畅地敲击。他开始弹奏一首古老的曲子，忽然之间感到非常幸福。

“我能弹钢琴，”他心想，“从来没人教过我，可是我的大脑自动指挥手指怎么弹，而且我还能弹奏出曲子。”

他的伙伴们侧耳倾听。

“真美，”约翰说道，“这是哪一首曲子？”

“我也不知道。”托尼回答。

他们听到身后有声响。琳达·伍德正站在门口。她是位个子高高的苗条姑娘，有一头柔软的褐色长发。她长得并不好看，可是褐色的眼睛又大又温柔，笑起来甜甜的。她这会儿就在微笑着，还轻轻地哼唱着曲子。

托尼听到她的声音，止住了琴声。他红着脸站起身来，感到自己浑身发热，很不自在。

“接着弹呀，托尼。”琳达鼓励道。

“我弹完了。”托尼迅速答道。他合上了琴盖。

琳达走进屋来。“瞧，”她说道，“妈妈给你们准备了些蛋糕和牛奶。她让我带过来的。”

伍德太太的手艺很棒。蛋糕还是热乎乎的……他们都开始又吃又喝起来。

琳达瞅着钢琴。“是谁教你弹钢琴的，托尼？”她问道。

托尼低下脑袋，盯着自己又脏又旧的鞋子。“我不会弹琴。”他答道。

“不，你会弹！”琳达说，“我听见你弹来着。我在学校里学弹钢琴，可我弹得没你好。我喜欢那首曲子，那是《绿色的田野》。我在学校里看过谱子，可我弹不了，它对我来说太难了。你想不想借我的谱子看看？”

“我不识乐谱，”托尼答道，“我们学校里不开音乐课。”他变得忧郁起来，一副若有所思的样子。“音乐！”托尼在心里念着。他想起了那个带着小猴子的流浪琴师，然后他又想到了拉克夫人。他回忆起那些美妙的星期二的早晨，微微笑了起来。“我们只在每个星期二的早晨唱一会儿歌，仅此而已。”他说。

他站起身看着那架旧钢琴。“我一定要拥有它，”他对自己说道，“我要去问问伍德先生可不可以。”

晚上7点，托尼用冷水冲了澡，换上一件干净的衬衫，然后就跟皮普和约翰一起进了厨房。他们围着厨房宽大的桌子坐下，伍德太太将饭菜盛在三个热腾腾的盘子里端了上来，然后她便去跟伍德先生和琳达一起用晚餐了。

托尼吃完了他的那份肉和土豆，喝了两杯又浓又香的茶，接着他又吃了三块小蛋糕和一个苹果。他的胃口总是那么好。他洗了自己的盘子和杯子，把它们放好。

“我这就去！”他心里想着，并站起身来，走到门口。

“你要上哪儿去？”约翰问道。

“我想问问伍德先生那台钢琴的事，”托尼答道，“钢琴是贵重的东西。我们必须告诉他，然后由他来决定怎么办。”

他敲了敲起居室的门。

“进来！”农场主说。他正在看《农人周报》，伍德太太在给琳达补校服上的破洞，琳达自己则坐在角落里的桌旁写作业。

“伍德先生，请听我说，”托尼开口说，“那幢房子里有一架旧钢琴……”

“孩子，我不想知道这些事！”伍德先生说道。

“您不想知道吗？”托尼诧异道，“可是，先生，钢琴不是垃圾……”

“孩子，它就是 垃圾，把它搬走，扔了它。我需要那间屋子来存放我的新车。现在出去吧。我累坏了。我这一天忙得不可开交，现在只想看看报纸。”

“可是……”托尼再一次开口道。

“我不想听！”伍德先生嚷道，“走吧！”他生气地挥着手里的报纸。

“好的，伍德先生。”托尼说。他退出房间，随手关上了门，回到厨房里。

“听我说——你们俩能帮帮我吗？”他对皮普和约翰说，“伍德先生不想要那架旧钢琴了，他说可以给我。他只想腾出那间房子放他的新车。如果我想要，那架钢琴就是我的了。嗯，是的——我确实很想拥有它。可是，我能把钢琴放在哪儿呢？”

“这很简单，”皮普说道，“我们可以把它载上伍德先生的卡车，运到你家去。你家里人一定会很喜欢的！”

“你们从来没见过我们家的房子，”托尼说道，“我家的房子很小，住了七个人。我们不能把钢琴放到那儿去。”

“那就把钢琴卖了吧，”约翰提议。“用换来的钱买些好东西。”

“可我不想要钱，”托尼说道，“我要的是那台钢琴。”

“怎么跟他们说呢？”托尼心想，“怎么才能向他们表达清楚我的感受呢？”他看着自己的双手。他想要再一次用手指触摸那些黑白相间的琴键，他渴望再一次听到音乐在心头涌动……“我这是怎么了？”他不明所以。

皮普看了看钟。“时候不早了，”他说道，“我也累了，我要睡了。明天再考虑你的钢琴问题吧。”





5The Village School


The Village School

The next morning the boys got up at six o'clock. They took some sandwiches and a bottle of cold tea, and they began to cut the long grass in Mr Wood's biggest field.

The field was near a quiet road. At the side of the road was a small school. It stood in a garden. There were flowers and vegetables and a few fruit trees. But no children were there. The school was empty. It was summer and the children were on holiday.

The sun shone down angrily. The boys were hot and thirsty. At eleven o'clock Tony went for a drink, but the bottle was empty.

'I want a drink of water,' he said to Pip and John. He took the empty bottle and went into the school garden. There was a tap there and he turned it. No water came out. He went to the door of the school. He pushed — and it opened.

There was a little kitchen. Tony turned on the tap. He took a long drink and filled his bottle. Then he decided to look around the little school. It did not take him long. There was one classroom. The desks and chairs were very small, because it was a school for young children. Tony went back into the kitchen. 'It's July,' he thought. 'Everyone is on holiday. School doesn't start again until September. I can put the piano here. No one will come here. I've got six weeks. And in six weeks perhaps I can find a home for my piano.'

He went back to the field.

'You were away a long time,' said Pip. 'Did you have a drink, or a holiday?' They all laughed. 'Listen,' said Tony. 'The school door is open. The school's empty. I'm going to put my piano in the classroom.'

'Don't be stupid!' said John. 'What will the teacher say?'

'He won't say anything! He's on holiday,' said Tony. 'You're on holiday too, aren't you? When do you go back to school?'

'September the ninth,' said John.

'That's right!' said Tony. 'Listen - the door's open. The key's in the door. I'm not going to steal anything. I'm just going to keep the piano in the classroom for a week or two... Can you help me? We'll put the piano on the lorry, and we'll take it to the school.'

'When?' asked Pip.

'Tonight,' said Tony.

The three boys worked very hard. They cleaned out the building. They cleaned the windows too. Then they put the piano on Mr Wood's lorry.

'What time are we going?' asked Pip.

'Eight o'clock,' answered Tony.

Linda gave the boys their supper that night. Mrs Wood was at a meeting in the village.

'Boys,' said Linda, 'Father says you are borrowing the lorry tonight.'

'Yes, that's right,' said Pip. 'I'm driving.'

'Please, can you take me to the village? Catherine is ill.' Catherine was Linda's best friend. 'I want to visit her.'

'But...' began Tony. He looked into her kind brown eyes and he told her his story. He told her about his old school. He told her about Mrs Lark. He talked about the village school, and the open door, and the quiet, empty classroom. Linda listened. John and Pip listened too. Then Linda smiled.

'Thank you, Tony. Now I understand. And I want to help you.'

The boys drove Linda to Catherine's house.

'Please come back at half past nine,' she said to Pip. She spoke loudly because Catherine's mother was listening. Then she said, very quietly, 'Good luck, Tony — and be careful!'

The boys drove the lorry to the little school. Then they moved the piano. It was very heavy, but they were young and strong. They pushed it into the classroom and stood it against a wall.

'It looks beautiful here,' said Pip. He touched the keys. They made a loud, unmusical noise.

'Listen to that!' said his brother. 'You had piano lessons for three years, but you didn't learn anything. Play something for us, Tony.'

Tony sat down and began to play one of Mrs Lark's songs. The music sang in his mind. It travelled along his arms. His fingers danced over the keys. He did not look at his hands. He did not look at the keys. His eyes were closed. He was in another world.

His friends listened. Tony was not clever. He was big and quiet and slow. But there was music in his big, strong hands.

That summer was a happy time for Tony. Every evening after supper he borrowed Linda's bicycle. He cycled to the school, and he played the piano. When it was dark he cycled back to the farm again. He was afraid to turn on a light in the school. He did not want anybody to see him.

'I think Tony has a girlfriend,' said Mrs Wood to Linda. Linda just smiled.

Tony learned to read music. Linda brought him a book of easy songs. She showed him the music. He looked at the little black notes and the five thin black lines on the pages of the book.

'This is easy,' he said to Linda. 'It's like writing. The notes tell your fingers what to do.'

'That's right,' said Linda. She showed him the long notes and the short notes. She taught him to read the words at the top of the page.

'Look!' she said. 'That's Italian. Lento — slow.'

But Tony was not slow. He learned very fast. Linda was a good teacher. Both of them enjoyed her lessons.

thirsty adj. feeling thirst 渴的，口干的

thirsty

tap n. a device by which a flow of liquid or gas from a pipe can be controlled 龙头，阀门

tap

steal v. to take (property etc.) without right or permission, esp. in secret with the intention of not returning it 偷盗，窃取

steal

careful adj. cautious 小心的，谨慎的

careful

note n. a written sign representing the pitch and duration of a musical sound 音符

note

Italian n. the language used in Italy and parts of Switzerland 意大利语

Italian

lento adv. slow [音]缓慢地

lento





5 ．乡村学校


第二天一早，小伙子们6点钟就起床了。他们带了一些三明治和一瓶凉茶，然后就开始割草。在伍德先生那片最宽阔的田地里，草已经长得很高了。

这片田地旁边有一条僻静的大路，路边有一所很小的学校，周围有一片花圃。花圃里种了花草、蔬菜和几棵果树。但学校里空荡荡的，一个孩子也没有。时值夏日，孩子们都放假了。

阳光毒辣辣地照射下来，男孩子们晒得又热又渴。到11点钟的时候，托尼去喝茶，但是瓶子已经空了。

“我想要喝水。”他对皮普和约翰说。他拿上空瓶子，来到学校的花圃，那儿有个水龙头。他拧开水龙头，但没有水。他走到学校门口，推了推门，门开了。

学校里有一间狭小的厨房。托尼打开水龙头，可劲儿灌了一气，又把瓶子装满。然后他决定在这所小学校里转转。没一会儿他就转完了一圈。这里只有一间教室，而且因为这是所小孩子的学校，所以桌子和椅子都很矮小。托尼回到厨房，“这会儿是7月份，”他琢磨着，“所有人都放假了，学校要到9月份才会开学。我可以把钢琴放在这儿，没有人会来。我有六个星期的时间，在这段时间里，我或许可以给我的钢琴找好地方。”

他回到田地里。

“你去了好一会儿啊，”皮普说道，“你是去喝水了，还是放假玩儿去了？”他们都笑了起来。

“听我说，”托尼说道，“学校的门开着，里面一个人也没有。我决定把我的钢琴放在教室里。”

“别傻了！”约翰说道，“老师会说什么呀？”

“他什么也不会说的！他放假回家了。”托尼回答道，“你也放假了，对不对？你什么时候回学校上课？”

“9月9号。”约翰答道。

“这就对了！”托尼说道，“听我说——门是开的，钥匙就插在门上。我不会偷任何东西，我只是想把我的钢琴放在那儿，只不过一两周的时间……你们能帮我吗？我们可以把钢琴放在卡车上，然后开车把它运到学校来。”

“什么时候呢？”皮普问道。

“今天晚上。”托尼答道。

三个男孩干得很起劲。他们把房子清理干净，把窗户也擦了。然后，他们将钢琴搬到伍德先生的卡车上。

“我们几点出发？”皮普问道。

“8点。”托尼答道。

那天晚上是琳达给他们盛的晚餐。伍德太太去村子里参加集会了。

“嗨，”琳达说，“爸爸说你们借了卡车，今晚要用。”

“对，是这样，”皮普答道，“由我开车。”

“哦，你们能把我捎到村里去吗？凯瑟琳生病了。”凯瑟琳是琳达最好的朋友。“我想去看看她。”

“可是……”托尼开口说道。他注视着她那双温柔的褐色的眼睛，把事情的始末告诉了她。他跟她说了自己原来的学校，说到拉克夫人，还讲了村子里的学校、那扇敞开的校门和那间安安静静、空荡荡的教室。琳达听着，约翰和皮普也听着。然后，琳达笑了。

“谢谢你告诉我，托尼，这下子我明白了。我也想帮助你。”

小伙子们开着车，把琳达送到凯瑟琳家。

“请你们9点半过来！”她对皮普嚷道。她有意提高嗓门，因为凯瑟琳的母亲就在一旁听着。然后，她又轻轻地说：“祝你好运！托尼——小心点！”

孩子们开着卡车来到那间小学校，然后把钢琴搬下车。钢琴很重，但他们既年轻又有力气。他们把钢琴推到教室里，靠着墙放好。

“它放在这儿真漂亮。”皮普评论道。他按了几下琴键，钢琴发出不成旋律的嘈杂响声。

“听听！”他的弟弟说道，“你上了三年钢琴课，可是什么也没有学会。给我们弹点儿什么吧，托尼。”

托尼坐下来，开始弹奏拉克夫人教他们的一首曲子。乐曲回旋在他的脑海里，通过双臂传递到他的手上。他的手指在琴键上跳跃着。他既没有看自己的双手，也没有看琴键。他闭着眼睛，进入了另外一个世界。

他的朋友们静静地听着。托尼并不聪明，他个子大，话也不多，行动起来慢吞吞的。可是，他那双粗壮的大手却奏出了优美的乐曲。

那个夏天，托尼过得很开心。每天晚上吃过晚餐，他都借琳达的自行车一直骑到学校，然后就开始弹琴。他会一直弹到天黑，然后再骑车回到农场。他不敢在学校里开灯，因为他不想被别人看到。

“我想托尼是交女朋友了。”伍德太太对琳达说道。琳达只是微笑。

托尼开始学着识谱。琳达给他带来一本简单的乐谱，教他看谱子。他注视着书页上小小的黑色音符和那五条细细的黑线。

“这挺简单的，”他对琳达说道，“就像文字一样，音符告诉你手指该怎么动。”

“说对了。”琳达说道。她教他辨别长短音符，也教他如何阅读乐谱上方的注释。

“瞧！”她说道，“这是意大利文，lento的意思是‘缓慢地’。”

但托尼可不是个反应迟缓的学生，他学得很快。琳达是个好老师。他们俩一个教，一个学，都很开心。





6Mr Gordon Finds a Musician


Mr Gordon Finds a Musician

Mr Gordon was the teacher at the little village school. He was a kind old man and the children liked him. They enjoyed his lessons and he enjoyed teaching them. There was no piano at the school. This sometimes made him a little unhappy, because he loved music very much. But he sang with the children. He filled their young minds with songs and stories. It was a happy school.

One night during the summer holidays Mr Gordon wanted a book. He looked everywhere.

'I know!' he said suddenly. 'I left it at school. I'll go there at once. It isn't far away.'

He walked through the school garden. The door of the school was open! He felt in his pocket for the key — it was not there!

'Oh dear!' thought Mr Gordon. 'I forgot to lock the door. Now somebody is in the school. Perhaps it's a thief! What can I do?' Then he heard the music...

Tony played the same line of music again and again. It was not easy.

'Prestissimo ,' said the words at the top of the page. 'Very fast.' His fingers flew over the keys.

Mr Gordon stood and listened. There was a happy smile on his face. Then Tony stopped playing.

'That wasn't right,' he said to himself. He looked carefully at the little black notes on their thin black lines. 'The left hand goes like this.'

Mr Gordon spoke. 'And the right hand goes like this...'

Tony turned round. His face was white. 'Don't tell the police,' he said. 'Please. I haven't stolen anything. I haven't done anything wrong.'

'No, no, of course not,' said the teacher. 'But who are you? What are you doing in my classroom? And how did this piano get here?'

Mr Gordon visited the farm and talked to Mr and Mrs Wood.

'Tony is very special,' said Mr Gordon. 'I have been a teacher for forty years, but I have never met a boy like Tony. He must have music lessons at once. Then he must go to the College of Music in London. He needs to work with other musical boys and girls.'

'But his mother and father are poor,' said Mrs Wood. 'They can't pay for music lessons. They can't send him to college. They have five small children at home. Tony sends them money every month.'

'I can give Tony his first lessons,' said Mr Gordon. 'I don't want any money — I'll be very happy to teach this wonderful boy. I feel — oh, how can I explain to you? ... This is a very exciting time for me. Last night I came to school to look for a book, and I found a musician! ... But Tony learns very quickly. Soon he will need a really good teacher. Then we'll have to think about money. Perhaps Tony can go to the College of Music in the daytime and work in a restaurant in the evenings. ...'

'No, he can't!' said Mr Wood. Suddenly his face was red and angry. 'Tony is a good boy. He's like a son to us. His father is poor, but we are not.'

'That's right!' said his wife. She was usually a quiet woman, but her eyes were bright and excited. 'We will send Tony to the College of Music,' she said.

Tony knew nothing about their conversation. He was cleaning Mr Wood's new car when Mr Gordon visited the farm. But that visit changed his life. Mr Wood had a quiet talk with him later.

'Mr Gordon wants to give you piano lessons,' he told Tony.

Tony's eyes shone like stars. Then he shook his head. 'I haven't any money, sir,' he said.

'Mr Gordon doesn't want any money. I've had a talk with him. You are going to go to the school at four o'clock every afternoon. You will have your lesson, and you will practise on the piano for two hours. Then you'll come back to the farm and have your supper.'

'But my work...' began Tony.

'I can find another farm boy,' said Mr Wood, 'but good musicians are special people. Give me three tickets for your first concert, and I'll be happy.'

suddenly adv. occurring or done unexpectedly or without warning 突然地，意外地

suddenly

prestissimo adv. in a very quick tempo [音]最急板地

prestissimo

wonderful adj. remarkable or admirable 令人惊叹的

wonderful

restaurant n. a place where meals are served to the public 餐馆

restaurant

conversation n. the informal exchange of ideas, information, etc. by spoken words 交谈，谈话

conversation

practise v. to do repeatedly as an exercise to improve a skill 练习

practise





6 ．戈登先生发现了音乐家


戈登先生是那所乡间小学校的老师。他是一位和蔼的老人，孩子们都喜欢他。他们喜欢听他的课，而他也喜欢教他们。可是学校里没有钢琴，这让他有时觉得有点遗憾，因为他非常热爱音乐。但是，他可以和孩子们一起唱歌。他用歌声和故事充实着他们幼小的心灵。这是一所充满欢乐的学校。

暑假里的一个晚上，戈登先生想找一本书，他找遍了所有的地方也没找到。

“我想起来了！”他突然说道，“我把它落在学校了。学校不远，我这就去。”

他穿过学校的花圃，学校的门居然开着！他摸了摸口袋，钥匙不在那儿！

“哎呀！”戈登先生心想，“我忘记锁门了。这会儿有人就在学校里，也许是个小偷！我该怎么办？”就在这时，他忽然听到了音乐声……

托尼把同一段曲调弹了一遍又一遍。这一段曲子不太容易。

“最急板，”谱子上方的注释写道，“意思是‘非常快’。”他的手指飞快地掠过琴键。

戈登先生站住了，静静地听着。他的脸上浮现出开心的笑容。这时，托尼忽然停了下来。

“这里有点不对头，”他自言自语道。他仔细地研究着细细的黑色线条上挂着的一个个黑色小音符。“左手应该这样弹。”

戈登先生接口道：“而右手应该这样弹……”

托尼转过身，脸色变得煞白。“别去告诉警察，”他说道，“求求您，我什么也没有偷，我也没有做任何坏事。”

“哦，没有，当然没有，”这位老师说道，“可你究竟是谁？你在我的教室里做什么呢？这架钢琴又是从哪儿来的？”

戈登先生来到农场，同伍德夫妇作了一番长谈。

“托尼很特别，”戈登先生说道，“我教了四十年书，还从来没有遇到过像托尼这样的孩子。他一定得立即开始学习音乐课程，然后他应该去伦敦音乐学院上学。他必须和其他学音乐的孩子们一起学习。”

“可是他的父母很穷，”伍德太太说道，“他们负担不起音乐课程，更没有办法送他上大学。他们家里还有五个很小的孩子，托尼每个月都要给家里寄钱。”

“我可以先给托尼上启蒙课，”戈登先生说，“我不要钱——能教这个出色的孩子我觉得非常高兴。我觉得——噢，该怎么说呢？……这对我来说是非常令人激动的时刻。昨晚我到学校去找书，结果却发现了一个音乐家！……可是托尼学得很快，要不了多久，他就会需要一个真正出色的老师了。那时我们就必须考虑钱的问题了。或许托尼可以白天上音乐学院的课，晚上在餐馆里打工……”

“不，那样不行！”伍德先生嚷道。他忽然之间激动起来，脸色变得通红。“托尼是个好孩子，他就像我们的儿子一样。他的父亲很穷，可是我们有钱。”

“对，没错！”伍德太太同意道。她平时不大说话，可是这会儿她的眼神却变得明亮而激动。“我们 来送托尼上音乐学院！”她说。

对于这番谈话，托尼一无所知。戈登先生来到农场时，他正在清洗伍德先生的新车。然而，这次来访改变了他的一生。之后，伍德先生跟他平静地谈了一次话。

“戈登先生想给你上钢琴课。”他告诉托尼。

托尼的双眼顿时绽放出星光般的神采，接着又摇了摇头，说：“先生，我没有钱。”

“戈登先生不要钱。我跟他谈过了，每天下午4点你到学校去上课，练两个小时的琴，然后回到农场来吃晚饭。”

“可是，我的活儿……”托尼开口道。

“我可以再找一个男孩来干农活，”伍德先生答道，“但不是任何人都能成为出色的音乐家的。你开首场音乐会的时候如果能给我三张票，我就很高兴了。”





7The Music Competition


The Music Competition

Tony worked and worked. He got up at six every morning. He worked on the farm until four o'clock in the afternoon. But every minute of the day, music filled his mind.

At four o'clock he cycled to his piano lesson with Mr Gordon. He practised until seven o'clock, then he cycled back to the farm for supper. After supper he read Mr Gordon's music books. Often he fell asleep at the kitchen table.

At night, while he slept, his mind was still full of music. Small black notes danced in front of his eyes. When he woke up the music was still there. Tony lived in a world of music.

The leaves fell from the trees. Winter came. It was dark when Tony got up in the mornings. It was dark when he cycled to his piano lesson, and it was dark when he cycled back to the farm again. Sometimes it snowed. Then he had to walk to and from the school. But he never missed a lesson.

'How's the boy getting on?' the farmer asked Mr Gordon one day.

'Very well,' said the teacher. 'But he's too quick for me. Soon he'll need a real teacher.'

Spring came, and the trees were green again.

'There's a music competition in the town on June 12th,' said Mr Gordon one evening.

'Can I go and listen?' asked Tony.

'No,' said his teacher. 'I will go and listen. You are going to play in the competition.'

'But I can't do that! I need to practise more. I'm not ready!' said Tony.

'You will be ready,' said his teacher quietly.

Mr Gordon was a kind old man. But he made Tony practise for four hours every day. Another boy helped Mr Wood on the farm while Tony practised for the competition.

'Two weeks to go before the competition,' said Mr Gordon one evening. 'Look, this is the programme.'

The programme was big and beautiful and expensive. Tony looked for his name. He found it. 'Anthony Evans, aged 15. Piano.'

'Nobody calls me Anthony,' he said. 'Why can't they call me Tony?'

'Tony is a boy's name,' said Mr Gordon. 'Anthony is a man's name. Tony Evans was a farm boy. Anthony Evans is a musician. One day, Anthony Evans will be famous all over the world. And from today I'm going to call you Anthony.'

On the morning of the competition Mr and Mrs Wood and Anthony went into town in the car. While Mr Wood had a drink with some friends, Mrs Wood took Anthony shopping. She bought him a new brown suit and a new white shirt. Then she took him into a shoe shop — and Pip's father sold her some new shoes for Anthony.

They were beautiful shoes. They shone like glass and Mrs Wood liked them very much. The shoes were too small and they hurt Anthony's feet. But he did not say anything — what could he say?

Mrs Wood paid for the shoes, and Pip's father put them in a box.

'I hear you're playing in the music competition tonight,' he said to Anthony. 'I saw your name in the programme. Anthony Evans — it sounds wonderful. Good luck!'

In the evening the Wood family and Anthony drove to Mr Gordon's house. Mr Gordon came out. He was wearing his best suit.

'You look wonderful, Mr Gordon!' laughed Mrs Wood. 'Are you getting married?'

The old man got into the car and they all drove to the competition. The Woods went to their seats, but Mr Gordon took Anthony through the stage door. He took him to a room behind the stage. A lot of musicians were waiting there. The women were wearing long dresses. The men were wearing evening suits. Nobody spoke to Anthony.

'Goodbye, my boy,' said Mr Gordon, 'and good luck.'

Anthony sat in the waiting room for a long time. His feet hurt. They burned like fire. His hands felt cold. They were shaking. From a long way away he heard the sound of a piano. Every few minutes a man came in and called someone's name. After a long time the man came in and said, 'Mr Evans, please.' Anthony did not move. Nobody usually called him Mr Evans!

'Mr Anthony Evans, please!' said the man again. 'Come along — we haven't got all night!'

Anthony got up. 'Oh, my feet hurt!' he thought. He followed the man up some stairs. 'I'm walking like Charlie Chaplin,' he thought. 'Everybody will laugh at me.'

He walked on to the stage and sat down at the big piano. The dark wood shone like glass. He could see his face in it. He turned round and looked at the sea of faces. He could not see the Wood family. He could not see Mr Gordon. But suddenly Anthony felt their love and their kindness. His feet stopped hurting, his hands stopped shaking. He touched the piano. It was much bigger than the old piano in the classroom. The keys looked very clean and new. He wanted to touch them.

'Well,' he said to himself, 'of course I want to touch them. That's why I'm here!' And he began to play. He forgot about himself. He forgot about all the strange people in the theatre, and he just played for his friends. He played for Mr and Mrs Wood. He played for Linda. He played for Mr Gordon. And he played for old Mrs Lark.

'Where are you now, Mrs Lark?' he thought. 'Do you remember Tony Evans? You gave us a lot of happiness, Mrs Lark. Thank you. Thank you.' His hands flew over the piano keys. Beautiful sounds filled the theatre.

'He's going to win the competition,' Mr Gordon said to himself. 'And this is the happiest day of my life.'

And Anthony won the competition. He knew that he was the winner because he saw his photograph in the newspaper the next day. But he could not remember anything about it. All he remembered was his feet.

When he got out of the car, he could not walk. His new shoes hurt him too much. Mr Wood helped him into the kitchen while Mrs Wood filled an old tin bath with warm water. Linda took Anthony's shoes off. His feet were very hot and red. He put them in the warm water.

'This is wonderful,' he said.

'You've won!' shouted Mrs Wood. 'Forget about your feet, boy — you've won the competition! This is the most important night in your life!'

But Anthony was too tired to answer. They helped him up to bed, and he slept until nine o'clock the next morning.

Linda brought him breakfast in bed. He felt very strange and uncomfortable. 'I've never had breakfast in bed before,' he told her.

miss v. to fail to experience, see, or attend (an occurrence or event) 缺勤，缺课

miss

programme n. a usu. printed list of a series of events, performers, etc. at a public function, etc. 节目单

programme

expensive adj. costing much 昂贵的

expensive

luck n. chance regarded as the bringer of good or bad fortune 运气，命运

luck

stage door the side or back door in a theatre, used by actors and theatre workers （供演员及工作人员使用的）剧院侧门或后门

stage door





7 ．音乐比赛


托尼勤勤恳恳地干着活儿。他每天早晨6点起床，在农场里一直工作到下午4点。然而，日间的每一分钟，他的脑海里都充满着音乐之声。

他每天下午4点骑车到学校，上戈登先生的音乐课。他练琴一直练到7点，然后再骑车回农场吃晚餐。晚餐过后，他就阅读戈登先生给他的音乐书籍。他常常一直看到趴在厨房的桌子上睡着。

哪怕晚上睡觉的时候，他的脑子里面仍旧装满了音乐。小小的黑色音符在他眼前跳跃。等他醒来的时候，音乐也还在那儿缭绕不绝。托尼生活在一个音乐的世界里。

树木落叶了，冬天来了。托尼每天早晨起床时，天还没亮；他骑车去上钢琴课时，天已经黑了；他骑车回农场时也仍旧伴着夜色。有时候天会下雪，他便不得不走去走回。但是他从没有落过一次课。

“小家伙学得怎么样了？”一天，农场主问戈登先生。

“学得很好，”老师答道，“可是他学得太快了，我教不了他了。用不了多久，他就会需要一位真正的老师了。”

春天来了，树叶又发出了绿芽。

“6月12日，城里有一场音乐比赛。”一天晚上戈登先生说道。

“我能去听听吗？”托尼问道。

“不，”他的老师说道，“我 去听，而你 要去参加比赛。”

“可是我不行！我需要更多地练习，我还没有准备好！”托尼嚷道。

“你会作好准备的。”他的老师平静地说。

戈登先生是一位和蔼的老人，但他要求托尼每天练习四个小时。托尼准备比赛的时候，另有一个孩子帮着伍德先生干农活。

“距离比赛只有两个星期了，”一天晚上，戈登先生说道，“看看节目单吧。”

节目单很大，漂亮而且华贵。托尼寻找着自己的名字，它就在那儿。“安东尼·埃文斯，15岁。比赛项目：钢琴。”

“没有人叫我安东尼，”他诧异道，“他们为什么不能叫我托尼？”

“托尼是用来称呼孩子的，”戈登先生答道，“安东尼是大人的名字，过去的托尼·埃文斯是个乡下孩子，现在的安东尼·埃文斯是一位音乐家。有朝一日，安东尼·埃文斯将会举世闻名。从今天开始，我要叫你安东尼。”

比赛那天的早晨，伍德夫妇和安东尼一起坐着汽车进了城。伍德先生和一些朋友去喝酒，伍德太太则带着安东尼去买衣服。她给安东尼买了一件崭新的褐色外套和一件白色的新衬衫，然后她又带着安东尼进了一家鞋店——皮普的父亲帮她给安东尼挑了双新皮鞋。

皮鞋很漂亮，鞋面光可鉴人，伍德太太很喜欢。可是鞋太小了，把安东尼的脚挤得生疼。但他什么也没说——他能说什么呢？

伍德太太付了鞋钱，皮普的父亲把皮鞋放到盒子里。

“我听说你要参加今晚的音乐比赛，”他对安东尼说道，“我在节目单上看到了你的名字。安东尼·埃文斯一一听起来真帅。祝你好运！”

晚上，伍德一家和安东尼开车到了戈登先生的住处。戈登先生一身盛装地走出门来。

“你看起来可真精神，戈登先生！”伍德太太笑着说道，“是要当新郎官吗？”

老人坐进汽车，他们一起驱车去比赛的地方。伍德一家找到他们的座位，戈登先生则领着安东尼穿过剧院后门来到后台的一个房间。不少音乐家都等在那里，女士们身着长裙，男士们则穿着晚礼服。没有人搭理安东尼。

“再会，我的孩子，”戈登先生说道，“祝你好运。”

安东尼坐在房间里等了好久，他的脚生疼，感觉火辣辣的。他的手冷冰冰的，瑟瑟发抖。他听见从很远的地方有琴声传来。有个人每隔几分钟就进来报个名字。过了好久，这个人进来叫道：“埃文斯先生，请上场。”安东尼没有动。平常可从没有人叫他埃文斯先生！

“安东尼·埃文斯先生，请上场！”那人重复道，“快点，我们可等不了你一晚上！”

安东尼站起身来。“天哪，我的脚可真疼！”他心想。他跟着那人上了几级楼梯。“我走路的样子简直就像查理·卓别林，”他想，“所有人都会笑话我的。”

他走上舞台，坐在那架巨大的钢琴前。深色的木头亮得像镜面一样，能照出他的脸。他转过身来，看着台下的人山人海。他看不到伍德一家坐在哪儿，也找不着戈登先生。但他忽然间感觉到了他们的爱与心意。他的脚不疼了，手也不抖了。他碰了碰钢琴，这台钢琴比乡下教室里那台旧的可大多了，琴键看上去很干净，是崭新的。他很想去触摸那些琴键。

“是的，”他心想，“我当然想触摸它们，我就是为此而来的！”于是，他开始演奏，他完全忘记了自己的存在，忘记了剧院里的陌生人群，他只为自己的朋友们演奏。他为伍德先生和伍德太太演奏，为琳达演奏，为戈登先生演奏，也为年迈的拉克夫人演奏。

“这会儿您在哪儿呢，拉克夫人？”他心想，“您还记得那个叫托尼·埃文斯的孩子吗？您给我们带来了那么多的欢乐，拉克夫人，谢谢您，谢谢您。”他的双手在琴键上飞舞，美妙的乐声充满了整个剧院。

“他会赢得这场比赛的，”戈登先生对自己说道，“这是我一生中最高兴的一天。”

安东尼确实赢得了这场比赛。他是第二天在报纸上看到了自己的照片才知道自己赢了的。但他什么也不记得了，只记得自己的脚痛。

当他迈出车子的时候，他一步也走不动了，新鞋子实在太挤脚了。伍德先生扶着他走进厨房，伍德太太则用一只旧锡盆盛满热水。琳达帮安东尼把鞋子脱下来，他的脚红肿发烫。他把脚放到热水里。

“真舒服。”他说道。

“你赢了！”伍德太太嚷道，“孩子，忘掉你的脚痛吧，你赢了这场比赛啊！这是你一生当中最重要的一个晚上！”

但是安东尼已经疲倦得说不出话来。他们扶着他上了床，他一直睡到第二天早上9点。

琳达将早餐给他送到床上。他感觉怪怪的，很不自在。“我以前从来没有在床上吃过早餐。”他对她说。





8The End of the Story


The End of the Story

Sir Anthony Evans turned to me. 'That competition was the start of wonderful things for me,' he said. 'I went to the College of Music for three years. Of course, I worked hard, but I enjoyed every minute. I always went back to the farm for my holidays. And one summer, when I was twenty, I asked Miss Linda Wood a very important question. "I can't give you much, Linda," I told her. "But one day I shall be rich and famous. Then I'll come back again, and I'll ask you to marry me." She gave me a long, loving look. Then she laughed. "Oh, Anthony," she said. "Don't wait until you're rich and famous. Ask me now!" So I did — and here we are!'

'We've been married for sixty years. Five years ago, the Queen invited us to Buckingham Palace. I was Mr Anthony Evans when I went into the Palace. I was Sir Anthony Evans when I came out... and,' — he took his wife's hand — 'my dear Linda was Lady Evans.'

There was a knock at the door of the dressing-room. 'Two minutes, Sir Anthony!' said a voice.

The famous musician stood up. 'I'm ready,' he said. He turned to me.

'How many concerts have I given? Two thousand? Three thousand? For me, every concert is new and exciting. Now go, my dear, and write your story. Tell the readers of your newspaper that I am a very lucky man.'





8 ．故事的结局


安东尼·埃文斯爵士朝我转过身来。“对我而言，那场比赛是所有美好的一切的开端，”他说道，“我去音乐学院上了三年学。当然我学得很刻苦，但是每一刻我都乐在其中。每逢假期，我总是回到农场。在我20岁的那个暑假里，我问了琳达·伍德小姐一个重要的问题。‘琳达，我现在给不了你太多，’我告诉她，‘但有朝一日我会功成名就的。那时，我会回到这里，请求你嫁给我。’她深情地、久久地看着我，然后笑了。‘哦，安东尼，’她说，‘不要等到你功成名就的时候，现在就好！’于是我就向她求婚了——就是这样！”

“我们结婚已经60年了。五年前，女王陛下邀请我们去白金汉宫。进去的时候我是‘安东尼·埃文斯先生’，出来的时候，我就成了‘安东尼·埃文斯爵士’……”他握住了妻子的手，“而我亲爱的妻子则成了‘埃文斯夫人’。”

化妆间外有人敲门。“还有两分钟，安东尼爵士！”有人说道。

这位著名的音乐家站起身来。“我准备好了。”他说着，朝我转过身来。

“你问我开过多少场音乐会？两千场？三千场？对于我来说，每一场音乐会都是全新的，都是令人激动的。现在去吧，我的孩子，写出你的稿子，告诉你的读者们，我是一个多么幸运的人。”





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1．Read the story introduction on the first page of the book. How much do you know now about the story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) The boy works for a farmer.

YES □／NO □

2) Everything in the old building is rubbish.

YES □／NO □

3) The boy has had piano lessons for many years.

YES □／NO □

4) The boy has never had lessons, but he can play the piano.

YES □／NO □

5) The boy is clever and does well at school.

YES □／NO □

6) Music changes the boy's life.

YES □／NO □

2．What is going to happen in the story? Can you guess? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) The farmer throws the piano away.

YES □／NO □

2) The farmer gives the piano to the boy.

YES □／NO □

3) The farmer sells the piano.

YES □／NO □

4) The boy keeps the piano and learns to play it.

YES □／NO □

5) The boy loses his job because of the piano.

YES □／NO □

6) The boy decides to be a music teacher.

YES □／NO □

7) The story has a happy ending.

YES □／NO □





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1．Read Chapter 1 and answer these questions.

1) How did Sally Hill feel before she met Sir Anthony?

2) Who looked like a farmer's wife?

3) How old was Sir Anthony when he first touched a piano?

4) When did Sir Anthony leave school?

5) Where did he work after he left school?

6) What was Sir Anthony's school like?

2．Read Chapters 2 and 3. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Change the false sentences into true ones.

1) Mr Grey didn't enjoy teaching children.

2) Tony was a slow, quiet boy.

3) Tuesday was reading day at Tony's school.

4) Tony often went to concerts.

5) There were six children in Tony's family.

6) Most children got jobs in offices when they left school.

7) Tony was interested in the flowers and trees in the country.

8) Mr Wood had a daughter who was older than Tony.

9) On the farm Tony worked hard and slept badly.

10) Pip, John and Tony all liked working on the farm.

3．Read Chapter 4. Who said these words, and to whom?

1) 'It isn't a cupboard. It's an old piano.'

2) 'We can't get rid of this. We really can't.'

3) 'I have piano lessons at school hut I can't play like you.'

4) 'It is rubbish, boy. Take it away.'

5) 'I don't want money. I want the piano.'

4．Before you read Chapter 5, can you guess the answer to this question?

Tony wants to keep the piano. Will he...

1) hide it on the farm?

2) ask Pip and John to keep it in their house?

3) find another place to keep it?

4) ask Mrs Lark to keep it for him?

5) ask Mrs Wood and Linda to help him?

5．Read Chapter 5. Choose the best question-word for these questions, and then answer them.

Who/Where/Why

1) ...did Tony go into the school?

2) ...was the school empty?

3) ...helped Tony to move the piano?

4) ...did Tony go every evening that summer?

5) ...taught Tony to read music?

6．Read Chapter 6, then circle the correct words in each sentence.

1) Mr Gordon went to the school to get a key/a book .

2) Mr Gordon smiled/cried when he heard the piano.

3) Tony's first music lessons were free/cheap .

4) Mr Gordon/Mr and Mrs Wood decided to pay for Tony to go to the College of Music.

5) Mr Wood thought that good musicians/farm boys were special people.

7．Read Chapters 7 and 8. Then put these sentences into the right order, to make a short paragraph.

1) Tony practised for the competition for four hours every day.

2) But he always went back to the farm for his holidays.

3) The new shoes hurt his feet, but Tony still played well.

4) For a year, Tony had lessons from Mr Gordon.

5) He married Linda when he was twenty.

6) He won the competition, and the next day his photograph was in the newspaper.

7) Mrs Wood bought him new clothes and shoes.

8) Now he is famous and has given thousands of concerts.

9) Then he went to the College of Music for three years.

10) One day Mr Gordon told him about a music competition in the town.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


1．This is the beginning of Sally Hill's story about Sir Anthony Evans. Can you find and correct the fourteen mistakes in it?

Yesterday was Sir Anthony Evans' seventieth birthday concert. He played music for the guitar by Mozart, and millions of people came to listen to this very famous guitarist. After the concert, I went to see him and his sister, Lady Linda Evans, in the theatre dressing-room, and Sir Anthony told me his story.

He came second in a music competition when he was sixteen, but the story really began before that. One day in an old factory building a boy called Tony found a new piano. He was fourteen at the time. He came from a musical family and he knew a lot about music, and when he touched the keys of the piano...

2．Put these words into two lists. Then think of a name for each list and write them in the boxes.

animal, chicken, college, concert, country, cow, field, grass, keys, lorry, note, piano, play, practise, song, sound, yard

3．Sally Hill also talked to Lady Linda Evans about Sir Anthony. Put their conversation into the correct order and write in the speakers' names. Sally speaks first (No. 3).

1) ______ 'When he played the piano that first time, I knew that he was a real musician — much more than me. And I wanted to help him.'

2) ______ 'How did you feel when he won the competition?'

3) ______ 'What was Sir Anthony like when you first met him?'

4) ______ 'It was wonderful! I was so happy for him. He went away after that, of course — but he always came back.'

5) ______ 'Why did you want to teach him?'

6) ______ 'I didn't want to tell anybody. It was our secret. Tony liked learning about music — and I liked being with Tony.'

7) ______ 'He was a big, strong boy. He didn't say very much, but he was very nice.'

8) ______ 'Why didn't you tell your parents about the lessons?'

9) ______ 'Oh yes! He learnt very quickly, and he remembered everything.'

10) ______ 'So you taught him to read music. Was he a good student?'

4．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter ______.

1) Where are these people?

2) Who are they helping, and why?

3) What happened earlier that evening?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: __________________________________

5．Write in the names which go best with these descriptions.

Mr and Mrs Wood/Mr Gordon/Mrs Lark/Linda Wood/Pip and John/Tony's mother

1) ______ helped Tony to move the piano.

2) ______ gave Tony time for his piano lessons, and paid for his lessons at the College of Music.

3) ______ gave Tony his first piano lessons free.

4) ______ got a job for him on Mr Wood's farm.

5) ______ taught Tony to read music.

6) ______ taught Tony to enjoy singing.

Whose help do you think was most important to Tony? Put the names of the characters in order, with the most important one first.

Whose help do you think was most important to Tony? Put the names of the characters in order, with the most important one first.

6．Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with these sentences? Explain why.

1) If you have a special feeling for music (or football, or writing), you don't have to work hard or practise every day.

2) If you want to be really good at something, it must be the most important thing in your life.

3) Luck is more important than hard work if you want to do well.

4) If you want to do well, the most important thing is to belong to a rich family.

京权图字：01-2002-6590

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2002

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

莫尔格街凶杀案＝The Murders in the Rue Morgue／（美）爱伦·坡（Poe, E. A.）著；（英）巴西特（Bassett, J.）改写；刘姗姗译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2003.6（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-3615-1

Ⅰ．莫…　Ⅱ．①爱…②巴…③刘…　Ⅲ．英语—对照读物，小说—英、汉　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2003）第065548号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 易　璐

责任编辑：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2003年9月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-3615-1

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


世界书林中不乏著名的侦探——洛杉矶的菲利普·马洛、芝加哥的维克·沃肖斯基、牛津的莫尔斯巡官，当然，还有来自伦敦的神奇的舍洛克·福尔摩斯。然而出现在所有这些名探之前的是巴黎的奥古斯特·杜邦先生。

他并非警官，也不是一个真正的侦探。他是一个性格温和酷爱书籍和阅读的年轻人。但是他聪明至极，理解能力高人一等。他对莫尔格街发生的可怕的凶杀案产生了浓厚的兴趣，因为它是一个未解之谜。是谁杀害了老太太和她的女儿？这场凶杀案为何如此粗暴凶残？凶手又是如何逃出房子的？有众多谜团——却没有谜底。

“诀窍，”奥古斯特·杜邦说，“在于问恰当 的问题。然后就可以找到谜底……”





THE MURDERSIN THE RUE MORGUE


IN THE RUE MORGUE

There are many famous detectives in the world of books—Philip Marlowe in Los Angeles, Vic Warshawski in Chicago, Inspector Morse in Oxford, and of course, the great Sherlock Holmes in London. But before any of these, there was Monsieur Auguste Dupin in Paris.

He was not a policeman, and not really a detective either. He was a quiet young man, who loved books and reading. But he was clever, and he could understand many things that other people did not. He took a close interest in the horrible murders in the Rue Morgue, because there were no answers to the mystery. Who murdered the old lady and her daughter? Why were the murders so brutal? How did the murderer get out of the house? So many questions—and no answers.

'The secret,' said Auguste Dupin, 'is to ask the right questions. Then you will find the answers...'





1My friend Auguste Dupin


My friend Auguste Dupin

I met Monsieur Auguste Dupin while I was living in Paris during the spring and summer of 1839. This young Frenchman was from an old and famous family, but the family was now very poor and Dupin only had a little money to live on. He ate and drank very little, bought no clothes, and lived very quietly. Books were the love of his life, and in Paris it is easy to get books.

Our first meeting was in a small bookshop in the Rue Montmartre. We were looking for the same old book, and that is how our conversation began. We met again and again, and were soon very friendly.

He knew much more about books than I did. Conversation with a man like him was very helpful for my studies, and after a time we agreed to find a house and live there together for the time of my stay in Paris.

We found a house in a quiet street in the Faubourg St. Germain. It was a very old house, and was neither beautiful nor comfortable. But it was right for us, and our strange way of life.

We saw no visitors, had no friends, and lived only for the night. When morning came, we closed all the shutters on our windows, and in this half-light we spent the day reading, writing, or talking, until the true darkness came. Then we went out into the streets, and walked for hours among the wild lights and shadows of the crowded city.

During these night walks I learnt how clever my friend was. He could think so clearly and understood so much! He could read other people's thoughts as easily as writing on a wall. He often said, with a laugh, that people had windows in their faces and that he could see through them. Sometimes he read my thoughts in ways that surprised me very much.

One night we were walking down a long street near the Jardin du Luxembourg. We were both thinking, and for fifteen minutes we did not say a word. Then, suddenly, Dupin said:

'He cannot write tragedy, that's true. He's much better at writing his funny pieces for the newspaper.'

'Oh yes, I agree with that. He—' Then I stopped, astonished. 'Dupin,' I said, 'I do not understand. How could you possibly know that I was thinking about—?' Again, I stopped. Did Dupin really know who I was thinking about?

'About Chantilly,' Dupin said. 'You were saying to yourself that he was a good writer, but he cannot write tragedy.'

'Yes, that's true,' I said. 'I was thinking that. But tell me, please! How did you know?'

This Chantilly wrote for one of the Paris newspapers. He wrote about Paris and Parisians in a way that was both clever and very funny. But then he wrote a book, a long story about the ancient Greeks, and Phaedra, the wife of King Theseus. It was, everybody in Paris agreed, a very bad book.

'It was the apple-seller,' replied my friend. 'The apple-seller began the thoughts that took you to Chantilly and his book.'

'The apple-seller!' I said, astonished. 'But I don't know any apple-sellers.'

My friend was happy to explain. 'Some minutes ago we passed an apple-seller, who was carrying a big box of apples on his head, taking them to the fruit market. He didn't see you, and you had to jump out of his way. There were holes in the street, and you turned your foot in one of these holes and nearly fell.'

I remembered this now, but how did the apple-seller take us to Chantilly?

'You looked around.' my friend went on, 'and saw all the other holes and broken stones in the street, and then you looked up, a little angrily, to see the name of the street. You were thinking, I am sure, that it was a dangerous street to walk down in the dark, when you could not easily see the holes.

'Then we turned a corner into the Rue Racine. Here, the stones were new and unbroken, and you looked up, pleased, to find the name of this street. This name began a new thought. You smiled a little and shook your head. The famous Racine, who wrote a play about Phaedra in 1677, was a better writer than Chantilly will ever be. And you remembered that when Chantilly's book first came out, the bookshops called Chantilly "the new Racine". Everybody in Paris laughed at poor Chantilly because of that. I was sure that you were thinking of that when you smiled. And when you shook your head, I knew you were thinking of poor Chantilly's book.'

conversation n. informal talk. 交谈，谈天。

again and again repeatedly. 反复地，屡次地；一再地，再三地。

friendly adj. acting like a friend. 朋友般的；友爱的。

shutter n. movable panel or screen that can be closed over a window to keep out light or thieves. 活动的窗板或窗帘，百叶窗，遮板。

wild adj. out of control; undisciplined. 失去控制的；不守规矩的。

astonished adj. very surprised. 感到惊讶的；吃惊的。

look around to search. 到处寻找。

broken adj. (of land) having an uneven surface; rough. （指地面）凹凸不平的，多岩石的地面。

laugh at mock or ridicule sb./sth. 取笑或讥笑某人或某物。





1 ．我的朋友奥古斯特·杜邦


我是1839年的春天和夏天住在巴黎时认识奥古斯特·杜邦先生的。这个法国年轻人出身于一个古老的名门望族，可是如今家道已经衰落，杜邦只能依靠着一点点钱勉强维持生计。他吃的喝的都很少，也不买衣服，过着非常平静的生活。书籍是他的生活所爱，而且在巴黎是很容易得到书的。

我们第一次相遇是在蒙马特尔大街的一家小书店里。我们都在找同一本旧书，于是便开始攀谈起来。后来我们又见过很多次面，很快成为了朋友。

他读过的书要比我读过的多得多。和这样的人交谈对我的学习大有裨益，后来我们决定找一所房子，在我待在巴黎的这段时间里合住在一起。

我们在圣日尔曼区一条僻静的街道上找到了一所房子，非常古老，既不漂亮也不舒适，但是却很适合我们，适合我们独特的生活方式。

我们不见客人，也没有什么朋友，只为夜晚而活着。白天我们关上所有窗户上的窗板，就在这半明半暗的屋子里读书、写作，或者聊天，直到真正的黑暗来临。然后我们就会到街上去，在拥挤的城市、纷乱的灯光和阴影中散步几个小时。

就是在夜晚散步的这些时间里，我发现了我的朋友是多么聪明。他的思路是如此清晰，理解是如此深刻！他能轻而易举地读懂别人的心思，就像在墙上写字一样容易。他经常笑着说人们脸上都有窗户，他可以透过这些窗户看见人们的内心世界。有时候他洞穿我的 心思的方法会让我大吃一惊。

一天晚上我们正沿着卢森堡公园附近一条长长的街道散步。我们各自想着心事，15分钟内谁也没有言语。突然，杜邦说道：

“的确，他写不了悲剧。他更擅长给报纸写那些幽默搞笑的东西。”

“哦，对，我同意。他——”我没说下去，惊讶万分。“杜邦，”我说，“我不明白。你怎么能知道我在想什么——？”我又一次打住了。杜邦真的知道我在想谁吗？

“在想尚蒂伊，”杜邦说，“你在心里说他是个好作家，但是他写不了悲剧。”

“对，是的，”我说，“我的确 是在想这些。但是请告诉我！你是如何知道的？”

这个尚蒂伊为巴黎的一份报纸撰写文章。他以一种睿智而又极其幽默的笔触描写巴黎和巴黎人。但后来他写了一本书，一个关于古希腊人和国王铁修斯的妻子费德拉的长篇故事。巴黎人都觉得这本书实在是糟糕至极。

“是因为那个卖苹果的商贩，”我的朋友回答道，“是卖苹果的商贩让你逐步想到了尚蒂伊和他的书。”

“卖苹果的商贩！”我吃惊地说，“可是卖苹果的商贩我一个都不认识啊。”

我的朋友很乐意解释。“几分钟前我们和一个卖苹果的商贩擦身而过，他头上顶着一大箱苹果要运往果市。他没看见你，所以你只得跳开给他让路。街道上坑坑洼洼，你的脚正好踩在了一个坑里，险些跌倒。”

现在我想起来了，可是这个卖苹果的商贩又怎么会让我们想到尚蒂伊呢？

“你四处看了看，”我的朋友接着说，“看见了其他坑洼和街上的碎石，然后有些生气地抬起头，去看街道的名字。”你肯定在想，摸黑走这条街实在不安全，因为不容易看清地上的坑。

“然后我们拐了一个弯到了拉辛大街。这儿的石路是刚铺的，没有什么坑洼，你欣慰地抬起头，去看这条街道的名字。这个名字让你想到了别的什么。你笑了一下，摇了摇头。德高望重的拉辛在1677年也曾写过一部关于费德拉的戏剧，他的成就是尚蒂伊永远难以企及的。你想到了在尚蒂伊的书首次面世的时候，书店都把他称为‘小拉辛’。所有的巴黎人都为此讥笑可怜的尚蒂伊。你刚才肯定是想到了这个才笑了起来。而当你摇头的时候，我就知道你一定是想起了可怜的尚蒂伊的书。”





2The murders


The murders

Not long after that night, we were looking through the Gazette , an evening newspaper, when we saw this:

TERRIBLE MURDERS

At about three o'clock this morning people living in the St. Roch Quarter were woken from sleep by a number of terrible screams. The screams came from the fourth floor of a house in the Rue Morgue, which belongs to a Madame L'Espanaye, and her daughter, Mademoiselle Camille L'Espanaye.

Eight or ten of the neighbours, and two policemen, ran to the house. There was no answer to their knocking, so they broke down the door. When they got into the house, the screams stopped, but while they were running up the stairs, they could hear two angry voices at the top of the house. When they arrived at the second floor, the voices stopped and everything was silent. The neighbours hurried from room to room but found nothing until they came to a large room at the back of the house on the fourth floor. This room was locked, with the key on the inside . They broke the door open and saw in the room something which was both horrible and astonishing.

Chairs and tables were broken and lay in pieces everywhere. There was one bed, and the mattress from it was now on the floor in the middle of the room. In front of the fireplace on the floor was a razor, with blood on it, and some long grey hair, with blood on the end. Also on the floor were three large silver spoons, and two bags, which contained nearly four thousand francs in gold. A small strong-box was found under the mattress. It was open, with the key in the lock, and contained only a few old letters.

At first they thought there was nobody in the room, but when they looked up the chimney, they found (horrible to describe!) the dead body of the daughter, head downwards. It was difficult to pull the body out because the chimney was so narrow. The body was still warm. There were deep cuts on the face, and around the neck there were dark bruises and the marks of fingers.

The neighbours looked in all the other rooms, then went down into the small yard at the back of the house. There they found the dead body of Madame L'Espanaye. Her neck was very deeply cut, and when they tried to lift her, the head fell off. There were terrible bruises all over the body.

At the moment, the police say, there are no answers to this horrible mystery.

look through sth. examine or read sth. quickly. 快速检查某事物，快速阅读某物。

scream n. loud shrill piercing cry or noise. 高而尖的声音。

break (sth.) down make sth. collapse by striking it hard. 猛击某物使之毁坏，破门而入。

at the back of... 在……的后部。

mattress n. fabric case filled with soft or springy material (e.g. wool, hair, feathers, foam rubber, etc.) and used for sleeping on. 床垫。

fireplace n. open space for a fire in a room, usu. made of brick or stone and set into a wall. 壁炉。

razor n. instrument with a sharp blade, used for shaving hair from the shin. 剃刀，刮脸刀。

strong-box n. sturdy box for keeping valuable things in. 保险箱，保险柜。

bruise n. injury caused by a blow to the body or to a fruit, discoloring the skin but not breaking it. 挫伤，瘀伤。





2 ．凶杀案


那天晚上之后不久，我们阅读一份叫《新闻传播》的晚报时看到了这样一则新闻：

恐怖的凶杀案

今早，大约凌晨3点钟时，居住在圣·罗奇地区的人们被一阵凄厉的尖叫声惊醒了。尖叫声是从位于莫尔格街的一所房子的五楼传来的，这所房子的主人是一位名叫埃斯巴耐的夫人以及她的女儿，卡米耶·埃斯巴耐小姐。

八个或是十个邻居和两名警察立即赶到了那所房子。他们敲门，却没人应答，于是他们把门强行撞开。在他们进入房子时，尖叫声停止了，可是就在他们跑上楼的时候，他们听见了房顶上传来的两个愤怒的声音。跑到三楼时，声音消失了，一切都安静了下来。邻居们从一个房间冲向另一个房间，却一无所获，直到来到五楼房子后部的一个大房间。房门被锁住了，并且是从里面 反锁着。撞开门后，他们看到了房间里令人震惊而可怕的一幕。

桌椅全部被弄坏了，并且七零八落散得满地都是。房间里有一张床，床垫被扔到了屋中间的地板上。壁炉前的地板上有一把带血的剃刀，还有几撮发根带血的灰色长发。另外，地板上还有三把大银勺，两只装有价值将近4,000法郎黄金的袋子。在床垫底下还发现了一个小小的保险箱。箱子敞开着，钥匙插在锁孔里，里面只有一些已经读过的信。

起初他们还以为房间里没有人，可是当他们从烟囱里向上瞧时，竟然发现了（简直是惨不忍睹！）老太太女儿的尸体，尸体头朝下。由于烟囱过于窄小，尸体好不容易才被拽了出来。尸体尚带余温，脸上有很深的伤口，颈部有黑紫色淤青和手指的掐痕。

在查看了其他所有房间后，邻居们来到房子后面的一个小院子。在那里他们发现了埃斯巴耐夫人的尸体。她的脖子几乎被切断，在被抬走时，尸体的头掉了下来，而且尸体全身满是可怕的伤痕。

警方说目前还无法破解这桩令人发指的迷案。





3What the witnesses said


What the witnesses said

Dupin said nothing about these horrible murders that evening, but I knew he was interested, because the next day he opened the morning newspaper at once. There was a lot more about the mystery.

THE TRAGEDY IN THE RUE MORGUE

The police have talked to many people about this terrible tragedy. This is what witnesses have said, but nothing so far can explain the mystery in any way.

Pauline Dubourg, washerwoman

'I've known Madame and her daughter for three years. I do their washing for them and they pay very well. People say that the old lady was rich, but I don't know about that. I never saw anybody in the house when I went to get the washing or to take it back. I think they lived only on the fourth floor of the house.'

Pierre Moreau, shopkeeper

'I have lived all my life in this quarter. The house in the Rue Morgue belongs to Madame L'Espanaye, and she and her daughter have lived there for six years. Madame sometimes came into my shop, but I didn't see the daughter very often. The two of them lived very quietly. In six years I never saw anybody go into their house except the postman and the doctor.'

Many other neighbours said the same thing. There were no visitors to the house, either friends or family. The shutters of the windows, front and back, were nearly always closed, except for the large back room on the fourth floor.

Isodore Muset, policeman

'I was called to the house in the Rue Morgue at about three o'clock in the morning, and found twenty or thirty people at the front door. The screams from a person or people inside the house were very loud, but they stopped suddenly when we broke the front door down. I was the first up the stairs and when I reached the first floor, I could hear two angry voices, arguing loudly. One was a deep voice, the other high and shrill—a very strange voice. The deep voice was that of a Frenchman. I'm sure it wasn't a woman s voice. I could hear the words "diable " and "Mon Dieu ". The shrill voice was a foreigner, perhaps a man or perhaps a woman. I couldn't hear any words, but the language was Spanish, I think.'

Henri Duval, a neighbour

'I agree with what Isodore Muset has said, except about the voices. The shrill voice was speaking in Italian—I'm sure it wasn't French. No, I don't know Italian myself, but I'm sure it sounded like Italian words. I knew Madame L. and her daughter, and it certainly wasn't either of their voices.'

Jan Odenheimer, kitchen worker

'I was walking past the house when I heard those long, terrible screams, and I was one of the people who went into the building and heard the voices on the stairs. I am from Holland and don't speak French, but I'm sure the shrill voice was a man's voice—a Frenchman. I couldn't hear the words but the voice sounded angry and afraid. The deep voice said the word "diable " many times.'

Jules Mignaud, banker, Mignaud & Son

'Madame L'Espanaye opened an account at my bank eight years ago. She did not often take money out of her account, but three days before her death she took out four thousand francs. This money was paid in gold, and a clerk took it to her house in the Rue Morgue.'

Adolphe Le Bon, bank clerk at Mignaud & Son

'On Monday, at about 12 o'clock, I went with Madame L'Espanaye to her home, carrying the four thousand francs in two bags. When Mademoiselle L'Espanaye opened the front door, she took one of the bags, and then Madame took the other bag. I said goodbye and left. There was nobody in the street at that time.

William Bird, musician

'I'm an Englishman and I've lived in Paris for two years. I went into the house with the others and heard the voices on the stairs. The deep voice was that of a Frenchman—I remember hearing the words "Mon Dieu ". I also heard a sound like people fighting. The shrill voice was very loud—louder than the deep one. It wasn't an Englishman's voice. I think it was a German, possibly a woman. No, I don't understand German.'

Several witnesses said that the door of the room on the fourth floor was locked, with the key on the inside. Everything was silent when they got up there, and when they broke the door open, they saw nobody in the room. The two windows were closed and fastened on the inside. The police have looked through the house very carefully—every room, every chimney, every corner—but they have found nothing. The witnesses do not agree about the time between hearing the voices and breaking open the door—some say it was three minutes, others say five minutes.

Alfonzo Garcia, cook

'I live in the Rue Morgue, but I come from Spain. I was too afraid to go upstairs, but I heard the voices arguing. The deep voice spoke in French, and the shrill voice was that of an Englishman. Yes, I'm sure. No, I can't speak English, but I know what it sounds like.'

Alberto Montani, fruit-seller

'I was one of the first up the stairs, and heard the voices—a Frenchman with a deep voice, saying something angry, and a shrill voice, which spoke quickly and unclearly. I think it was the voice of a Russian. Yes, I'm Italian. I've never spoken to a Russian person.'

Paul Dumas, doctor

'I was called to see the bodies at daybreak. Both of them were then lying in the room on the fourth floor. The young lady's body was bruised and cut all over when it was pushed up the chimney. The face was blue-black, the eyes were half out, and the neck was badly bruised, with deep red marks made by very strong fingers. These marks show how she died. The mother's body was also horribly bruised, and all the bones of the right leg and arm were broken. How was this done? I don't know—perhaps by a heavy piece of wood like a table leg. A razor was used to cut the neck, and the head was no longer joined to the body. All this was done by a very strong person—a man, and a very strong one.'

There has never been a crime in Paris as mysterious as this one. How did the murderer or murderers escape from the house? The door to the room was locked, the windows were fastened. All the chimneys in the house are too narrow for a person to get through, there are no back stairs, and the door to the roof is very old and impossible to open. Whose voices did the witnesses hear? Why was the money left in the room? The police have no answers to these questions.

witness n. person who gives evidence in a lawcourt after swearing to tell the truth. （在法庭上经宣誓的）证人。

quarter n. district; part of a town. 地区；城镇的一部分。

deep adj. (of sounds) low in pitch, not shrill. （指声音）低沉的，不尖锐的。

shrill adj. (of sounds, voices, etc.) high-pitched; piercing; sharp. （指声响、嗓音等）高声调的，尖锐的，刺耳的。

diable （法）魔鬼，恶棍，坏蛋。

Mon Dieu （法）天啊，上帝啊。

account n. arrangement made with a bank, firm, etc. allowing credit for financial or commercial transactions. 账户，户头。

open an account 开户。

franc n. unit of currency in e.g. France, Belgium and Switzerland. 法郎（如法国、比利时和瑞士的货币单位）。

fasten vt. secure or fix sth. firmly. 使某物牢固，固定某物。

too...to... 太……以至于不能……。

daybreak n. dawn. 破晓，黎明。

horribly adv. causing horror. 可怕地，令人恐惧地。





3 ．证人的证词


那晚杜邦对这桩可怕的案子没有发表任何评论，可我知道他很感兴趣，因为第二天他立马打开早报看起来。报纸上对这桩迷案的报道更多了。

莫尔格街上的悲剧

警方已经就这场惨剧询问过很多人了。以下就是证人们的证词，但是到目前为止这桩案子仍旧是个未解之谜。

波利娜·迪堡，洗衣女工

“我认识这位夫人和她的女儿已经三年了。我给她们洗衣服，她们付的工钱很高。人们都说这位老夫人非常有钱，可我不清楚。我取送衣服时从没在房子里看见过别人，我想她们只住在房子的五楼上。”

皮埃尔·莫罗，店主

“我一直居住在这个区。莫尔格街那所房子的主人是埃斯巴耐夫人，她和她的女儿已经在那里住了六年了。这位夫人偶尔来我的店里，可不常见她的女儿。她们俩过着非常平静的生活。六年里，除了邮递员和医生，我从未见过其他人走进她们的房子。”

很多邻居都这么说。这所房子从未有过客人，无论是朋友还是亲戚。除了五楼那个大房间的窗板，这所房子前后窗的窗板几乎是长年累月地关着。

伊桑多尔·穆塞特，警察

“大概凌晨3点的时候我被叫到了莫尔格街的那所房子，已经有20到30个人聚集在房子的门前了。房子里传来一个人或是几个人很大的尖叫声，可当我们把前门撞开后尖叫声突然停止了。我是第一个上楼的人，上到二楼时，我听见了两个愤怒的声音在激烈地争吵。一个声音很低沉，另外一个声调很高，尖利刺耳——一种很奇怪的声音。那个低沉的声音是一个法国男人的。我确信那不是一个女人的声音。我听见了两个词，‘魔鬼’，还有‘天啊’。那个尖利的声音是一个外国人的，可能是男的，也可能是女的。我一个字也没听清，可我想那应该是西班牙语。”

亨利·杜瓦尔，邻居

“我同意伊桑多尔·穆塞特说的，除了关于声音的问题。那个尖利的声音说的是意大利语——我敢肯定那不是法语。不，我不懂意大利语，可我敢肯定那听起来像是意大利语。我认识埃斯巴耐夫人和她的女儿，那声音绝不是她们其中任何一个的。”

简·奥登海默，帮厨

“我路过那所房子时刚好听见一阵长长的、凄厉的尖叫声，我随其他人冲进了房子，上楼时听见了那两个声音。我是荷兰人，不懂法语，可我肯定那个尖利的声音是一个男人的——一个法国男人。我听不清说的是什么，可那声音听起来非常愤怒，并充满恐惧。那个低沉的声音说了很多遍‘魔鬼’”。

朱尔斯·米纽，银行家，米尼奥桑银行

“八年前埃斯巴耐夫人在我的银行开了一个账户。她很少从账户里取钱，可是就在她被害三天前她取走了4,000法郎。这笔钱是用黄金支付的，由一个职员带到她位于莫尔格街的房子。”

阿道夫·勒邦，米尼奥桑银行职员

“星期一大概中午12点的时候，我带着装有4,000法郎的两个袋子随埃斯巴耐夫人回家。埃斯巴耐小姐开了前门，拿走了一个袋子，然后夫人接过了另一只。道别后我便离开了。当时街上没人。”

威廉·波德，音乐家

“我是一个英国人，在巴黎已经住了两年了。我和其他人一起进入了房子，上楼时听见了那两个声音。那个低沉的声音是一个法国男人的——我记得听见他说‘天啊’。我还听到了像是打斗的声音。那个尖利的声音特别大——比那个低沉的声音大得多。那声音不是英国人的。我觉得是德国人的，可能还是个女人。不，我不懂德语。”

几名证人说五楼那个房间的门是锁着的，并且是从里面上的锁。他们赶到楼上时周围静悄悄的，撞开房门后发现房间里空无一人。两扇窗户紧闭，并且都是从里面扣住的。警方仔细地搜查了房子——每一个房间、烟囱和角落——却一无所获。证人们在听见说话声和撞开房门之间相隔多久这个问题上也说法不一——有人说是三分钟，有人则说是五分钟。

阿方索·加西亚，厨师

“我住在莫尔格街，不过我是西班牙人。因为太害怕我没敢上楼，可我听见了争吵的声音。那个低沉的声音说的是法语，而那个尖利的声音是一个英国人的。是的，我敢肯定。不，我不会说英语，可我知道英语听起来是什么样子。”

阿尔贝托·蒙塔尼，水果商贩

“我也是最先上楼的一个，听见了说话声——一个声音低沉的法国人生气地说着什么，还有一个尖利的声音，语速很快，含糊不清。我觉得是一个俄国人的声音。是，我是意大利人。我从未和俄国人说过话。”

保罗·迪马，医生

“黎明时分我被叫去验尸。两具尸体当时都放在五楼的房间里。那位年轻小姐的尸体由于被塞进烟囱而青一块紫一块，伤痕累累。她脸色铁青，眼球外凸，颈部有很严重的淤青，还有强有力的手指留下的深红色指痕。从这些指痕可以看出她是如何被害的。母亲的尸体也是严重挫伤，并且右腿和右胳膊全部骨折。这是怎么回事呢？我不清楚——可能是被一根像桌腿一样沉重的木头打的。脖子是被剃刀切断的，头已经与身体分离。这都是一个非常强壮的人干的——一个男人，而且非常强壮。”

在巴黎从未发生过如此神秘的案子。这个或这些凶手是如何逃出房子的呢？房间的门窗都锁着。房子所有的烟囱都极其窄小，人根本无法钻出去，没有后楼梯，通向屋顶的天窗也已经破旧得难以打开了。证人们听见的声音是谁的？房间里的钱为何没有被拿走？警方找不到这些问题的答案。





4Auguste Dupin visits the Rue Morgue


Auguste Dupin visits the Rue Morgue

Dupin read all this with great interest, and was the first to open the evening newspaper when it arrived.

He read silently, and then said, 'There is nothing new about the murders, but the police have arrested Adolphe Le Bon. Why, I don't know.' He looked at me. 'Well, my friend, what do you think about these murders?'

'It's a great mystery,' I said. 'It will be impossible, surely, ever to find this murderer.'

'We must not say "impossible" just because the police have done nothing,' said Dupin. 'The Parisian police do find the answers sometimes, but that is usually because of hard work, not because they are clever. Very often, you see, they don't think clearly. They look very hard at one or two things, but they don't see everything. You remember the saying, "They can't see the wood for the trees"? Well, sometimes it's important to stand back and look at the whole wood, and forget about the trees. Now, why don't we do a little detective work ourselves, and go round to the Rue Morgue? Adolphe Le Bon was once very helpful to me, and I would like to help him if I can. I know the police inspector, and I'm sure he will say that we can look round the house. So, shall we go?'

We went that same afternoon. We found the house easily because there were still people in the street looking up at the closed shutters. It was the usual kind of Parisian house, with nothing surprising about it. Before we went in, we walked up the street, turned down a narrow side street, and turned again to walk past the back of the building. Dupin looked at everything—the ground, the walls, the windows, the shutters—but I did not know what he was looking for.

Then we went inside, and a policeman took us up to the fourth floor. The two dead bodies still lay there, with the broken chairs and tables all around them. Again, Dupin looked at everything—the room and the bodies—very carefully. Then we went down into the yard at the back. It was dark when we left the Rue Morgue, and on our way home Dupin went in for a moment to the office of one of the daily newspapers.

That evening my friend would not answer any of my questions. But the next day he suddenly asked me, 'Did you see anything peculiar in that house in the Rue Morgue?'

I don't know why, but his question made me afraid. 'No, nothing peculiar ,' I said. 'Well, nothing more peculiar than what we both knew from the Gazette .'

'Neither the Gazette nor the police,' said Dupin, 'understand much about these murders. The police are puzzled by all the questions which they cannot answer. What was the motive for the murders? Why were the murders so brutal? Whose were the voices? How could these people get out of the house when the neighbours were running up the stairs? Why was everything broken in the room? Why was the girl's body up the chimney? Why did the old lady have so many broken bones?

'I'm afraid the police are making the mistake that many people make. They think that because the crime is so unusual, they can never explain it. But they are wrong. It is more helpful to have an unusual crime, because that will make us think harder, and ask the right questions, and in the end find the answer. We must not ask the question, "What has happened?"; we must ask, "What has happened that has never happened before ?" The answer to this mystery is not really difficult at all—I think I know it already.'

I looked at him, astonished, and could not say a word.

'I am now waiting,' he went on, 'for a person who is probably not the murderer himself, but who certainly knows something about the murders. He will arrive here—in this room—at any moment. I hope, and think, he will. And if he does come, it will be necessary to stop him leaving. Here are four guns, two for you and two for me. We both know how to use them if we have to.'

saying n. well-known phrase, proverb, etc.; remark often made. 谚语，格言，俗话。

not see the wood for the trees not see or understand the main point, subject, etc. because one is paying too much attention to details. 见树不见林。

side-street n. minor street branching off a major street. 小巷。

peculiar adj. odd or strange. 奇怪的，奇异的。

puzzled adj. unable to understand；confused. 无法了解的，困惑的，茫然的。

motive n. that which causes sb. to act in a particular way; reason. 动机，原因。

right adj. best in view of the circumstances; most suitable. 最切合实际的，最适宜的，最恰当的。





4 ．奥古斯特·杜邦造访莫尔格街


杜邦对这些新闻很感兴趣，晚报一到他就抢先打开看起来。

他静静地看了一会儿。然后说道：“这桩凶杀案没什么新进展，可是警方已经逮捕了阿道夫·勒邦。不知道是什么原因。”他看了看我，“哎，我的朋友，你 怎么看待这桩凶杀案？”

“一个难解之谜，”我说，“凶手肯定永远不可能找到了。”

“我们不能因为警方无所作为就说‘不可能’，”杜邦说，“巴黎警方有时确实能够揭开谜底，可那通常是靠他们的努力而并非智慧。你知道很多时候他们并没有清晰的思路。他们只盯着一两件东西，而看 不到全部。‘见树不见林’，你记得这句谚语吧？嗯，有时候站得远一点，看到整个树林而忽略单个的树是很重要的。现在我们何不亲自干点侦探的活儿，去莫尔格街转转呢？阿道夫·勒邦曾经给过我很多帮助，我也要尽可能地帮助他。我认识那里的巡官，他肯定会让我们看看那所房子的。那么，我们出发吧？”

当天下午我们就去了。我们很容易便找到了那所房子，因为街上仍有人在仰着头看那些紧闭的窗板。这房子是在巴黎街头最常见的一种，并无新奇之处。我们没进房子之前，先是沿着街道向前走去，拐进一条狭窄的小巷，而后又转弯走到了房子的后面。杜邦仔细地查看了每件东西——地面、墙壁、窗户、窗板——可我不明白他在找什么。

后来我们进入了房子里，一个警察把我们带到五楼。两具尸体仍然放在那里，周围全是残桌破椅。杜邦还是查看了这里的一切——房间、尸体——看得很仔细。然后我们又去了后院。离开莫尔格街时天已经黑了，回去的路上杜邦去一家日报社待了一会儿。

那晚我的朋友不愿意回答我的任何问题。可第二天他突然问我，“你注意到莫尔格街那所房子有什么异常 了吗？”

他的问题使我莫名地害怕起来。“没有，没有什么异常 啊，”我说，“唉，什么都比不上我们从《新闻传播》上看到的异常。”

“《新闻传播》和警方，”杜邦说，“都不十分清楚这桩凶杀案是怎么回事。警方被那些谜团搞得晕头转向。凶杀案的动机是什么？为什么作案手段如此凶残？是谁在说话？这些人又如何在邻居们飞奔上楼时逃出房子？房间里为什么会一片狼藉？女孩的尸体为什么被竖着塞进烟囱里？老太太又为何有如此多处的骨折呢？”

“恐怕警方犯了和许多人一样的错误。在他们看来，这桩案子如此离奇，他们永远都侦破不了。可他们错了。一桩奇案对我们是大有 帮助的，它会让我们多动脑子，问最恰当的问题，并最终揭开谜底。我们不该问这样的问题：‘发生什么事了？’；我们必须问：‘有什么前所未有 的事发生了？’这个迷案的谜底其实一点儿也不复杂——我想我已经知道了。”

我吃惊地看着他，一句话也说不出来。

“我在等，”他继续说道，“等一个人，他很可能不是凶手，却肯定知道些凶杀案的情况。他会到这来——到这间屋子里——随时都可能来。我希望他能来，也觉得他会来。如果他真的来了，就必须留住他不让他走。这里有四把手枪，你我各拿两把。我们都清楚万不得已的时候该怎么用它。”





5The mysteries of the voice and the window


The mysteries of the voice and the window

I took the guns, but I didn't really understand why, or who we were waiting for. So I was pleased when Dupin began to explain his thoughts to me.

'Now, let's think,' he said, 'about those angry voices heard by the neighbours running up the stairs. Think about the newspaper reports of what the witnesses said. Do you remember anything peculiar in what they said?'

'Well,' I replied, 'all the witnesses agreed that the deep voice was that of a Frenchman. But none of them agreed about the other voice, the shrill one—they all thought something different.'

'Yes, that was what they said, but you haven't understood what's peculiar about it,' said Dupin. 'The peculiar thing is—not that they disagreed—but that they all thought it was the voice of a foreigner . Each witness thought the voice spoke a language that they didn't know . Look at this list.' He showed me a piece of paper.

· One Frenchman thought the voice spoke in Spanish, but he didn't hear any words .

· A second Frenchman thought the voice spoke in Italian, because of the sound of the words, but he didn't know Italian himself .

· A Dutchman thought the voice spoke in French, but he himself didn't speak French .

· An Englishman thought the voice spoke in German, but he didn't understand German .

· A Spaniard thought the voice spoke in English—he couldn't speak English but he knew what it sounded like .

· And last, an Italian thought the voice spoke in Russian, but this man has never spoken to a Russian person .

'So! What a strangely unusual voice this was!' said Dupin. 'Speakers of five European languages did not hear one word—not one word—that they knew. It was also a strangely shrill voice, and was it a man's voice or a woman's? No one could tell.'

'But perhaps the voice was speaking an African language,' I said. 'Or an Asian one.'

'That is always possible,' Dupin agreed, 'but do you begin to see what question we must ask next?'

Puzzled, I shook my head.

'Well, we will come back to the voice later,' said Dupin. 'But for me, my thoughts about the voice already told me what to ask next. So, let us close our eyes and remember that room on the fourth floor of the house in the Rue Morgue. What do we want to find out first? The way the murderer got out of the room. Let's think about all the possible ways. First, the door to the passage was locked, with the key on the inside. We cannot argue with a key in a locked door. There were no secret doors—the police have looked at every centimetre of the floor, the ceiling, and the walls. And I also looked very carefully. So, no secret doors. What about the chimney? It is wide enough for a body for three metres, but higher up it is much narrower. Not even a cat could climb through it to the top. So what is left?'

'The two windows,' I said. 'But they were fastened on the inside, weren't they?'

'Yes, and no,' said Dupin. 'Let me explain. We can see all of the window on the left, you remember, but only the top half of the window on the right, because the head of the bed is pushed up next to the window. The police tried to open the window on the left, but found a very strong nail in the wood, which stopped the window opening. Another big nail was found in the other window. And the police stopped there. No one could get out of these windows, they thought, because of the nails and because both windows were fastened on the inside. So they did not try to take out the nails and open the windows.

'But I went on thinking. The windows were the only possible way, so the murderer did escape from one of these windows. But they were fastened on the inside, and how did the murderer fasten the window again—from the outside? There was only one answer. The window could fasten itself. I took out the nail from the window on the left, but the window still would not open. So I was sure there was a hidden spring somewhere, and after a while I found it. I pressed it, arid then I could open the window.

'I put the nail back into its hole, and thought some more. The murderer gets out through the window, then the window drops down again behind him, and fastens itself by its hidden spring. But the nail—how could anybody put back the nail from the outside? I went to the other window and stood on the bed, looking down behind the bed head at the bottom half of the window. The nail in this window looked the same, but ... There must be something wrong with this nail, I said to myself. I touched it—and the head of the nail came off in my fingers. The rest of the nail stayed in the wood. I carefully put back the broken nail head, pressed the hidden spring, and lifted the window a few centimetres. The nail head went up and came down with the window, but still looked like a real nail.'

'So,' I said, 'we know it was possible to escape throught the window behind the bed head. But the room was on the fourth floor ...'

'Ah,' said Dupin, 'that was the next question. You remember, don't you, how we walked around the building? And you saw, didn't you, the lightning-rod that went up the back wall of the building? And the unusual shutters on the windows on the fourth floor?'

'Yes,' I said, 'they were like doors, but the top half was latticed, which is unusual in Paris.'

'Yes,' Dupin said, 'and very easy for a hand to get hold of. Now, let me describe a possible picture to you. The lightning-rod on the wall is less than two metres from the window by the head of the bed. The latticed shutter is more than a metre wide, and when it is open and against the wall, it is only about half a metre away from the lightning-rod. It is possible to climb up the lightning-rod to the fourth floor. Then, a strong and agile—very agile—person could take hold of the latticed shutter with both hands, push his feet against the wall, and swing himself and the shutter across the window. And if the window is open and this person is very agile indeed, he could swing himself into the room.'

Dupin saw the surprise in my face. 'Remember,' he said, 'that I am talking about somebody who is very strong and agile—agile in a very unusual way, perhaps. Remember also the voice, that peculiar, shrill voice, which spoke in a language that nobody knew.'

At these words I felt I almost understood what Dupin was saying. But I wasn't sure, so I said nothing and waited for him to go on explaining.

disagree v. have a different opinion; not agree. 持不同观点；不同意。

foreigner n. person from a country other than one's own. 外国人。

thoughts n. idea or opinion produced by thinking. 看法；想法；意见。

shake one's head turn one's head from side to side as a way of indicating 'no', or to express doubt, sorrow, disapproval, etc. 摇头（表示否定、怀疑、悲伤、不赞成等）。

passage n. narrow way through sth., esp. with walls on both side; corridor. 通道；（尤指）走廊。

centimetre n. one 100th part of a metre. 厘米。

nail n. small thin piece of metal with a sharp point at one end and a flat head at the other, hammered into articles to hold them together, or into a wall. etc. for use as a peg to hang things on. 钉子。

escape vi. get free; get away. 逃脱，逃走。

spring n. device of twisted, bent or coiled metal or wire that can be pushed, pulled or pressed but tends to return to its original shape or position when released. 弹簧，发条。

come off become detached or separated from sth. 从某物上脱落或分离。

lightning-rod n. metal rod or wire fixed to an exposed part of a building, etc. to prevent damage by lightning. 避雷针。

lattice vt. to construct or furnish with a lattice or latticework. 用格状结构组成或装饰。

agile adj. able to move quickly and easily; active; nimble. 敏捷的；灵活的；活泼的；机敏的。

swing v. move to and fro while hanging or supported. （吊着或支着）摇动，摇摆。





5 ．声音和窗户之谜


我拿了手枪，却实在不明白为什么要这样做，还有我们到底在等谁。所以我很高兴听到杜邦向我解释他的想法。

“现在让我们想想，”他说，“关于那些正往楼上跑的邻居们听见的愤怒声音。想想报纸对证人证词的报道。你记得他们提到有什么异常 的事情吗？”

“嗯，”我答道，“所有证人都认为那个低沉的声音是一个法国男人的。但他们对另外一个声音，就是那个尖利的声音，说法不一——他们的想法各不相同。”

“是的，报道中确实是这么说的，但你还没看出这里面的异常 ，”杜邦说，“异常的事情——并非是他们意见相左——而是他们都认为那是一个外国人的 声音。每个证人都认为这个声音说的是一种他们不懂的 语言。看看这张单子。”他递给我一张纸。

*　一个法国人认为那声音说的是西班牙语，可他一个字也没听清 。

*　另外一个法国人因为字词的发音而认为那声音说的是意大利语，但他并不懂意大利语 。

*　一个荷兰人认为那声音说的是法语，可他并不会讲法语 。

*　一个英国人认为那声音说的是德语，可他不懂德语 。

*　一个西班牙人认为那声音说的是英语——虽不懂英语 ，可他知道英语听起来是什么样子的 。

*　最后，一个意大利人认为那声音说的是俄语，可这个人从未与俄国人说过话 。

“看！这声音多么超乎寻常啊！”杜邦说，“这些人说五门欧洲语言，却连一个字也没听懂——一个他们知道的字也没听出来。这个声音异常尖利，是男人的还是女人的呢？没人说得清。”

“或许那声音说的是一种非洲语言啊，”我说，“或是一种亚洲语言。”

“不能排除这种可能，”杜邦表示赞同，“你知道我们下一步该问什么问题了吧？”

我疑惑地摇了摇头。

“好，我们待会儿再说那声音，”杜邦说，“但是对于我来说，在我琢磨那个声音时我已经知道下一步要问的问题了。那么，让我们闭上眼睛，想想莫尔格街那所房子五楼的房间吧。我们最想知道什么呢？凶手是如何逃出房间的。想想所有可能的路径。首先，通往走廊的门是从里面锁住的。这就没什么好争论的了。警方已经把地板、天花板和墙壁都搜过了——没发现暗门。我也仔细瞧过了。的确没有暗门。那烟囱呢？三米之内人还可以钻过去，可再往高处去就越来越窄了。连只猫都钻不到头。还有什么呢？”

“那两扇窗户，”我说道，“但它们从里面锁住了，不是吗？”

“是，也不是，”杜邦说，“听我解释。我们可以看到左边的整扇窗户，记得吧，可因为有床头挡着，只能看见右边窗户的上半部分。警方试图把左边的窗户打开，却发现一枚很硬的钉子楔在窗户里，使得窗户无法打开。另一扇窗户上也有一枚大钉子。警方就此停住了。在他们看来，有这些钉子，并且窗户均由内上锁，没有人可以从窗户逃出去。因此他们也就没有想着拔出钉子打开窗户看看。

“可是我想到了。窗户是惟一可能的逃脱路径，凶手一定是 从其中的一扇窗户逃走的。但是窗户又是从里面上锁的，凶手怎么可能把它重新锁住——从外面把它锁上呢？答案只有一个，窗户可以自动关闭。我拔下了左边窗户上的钉子，但窗户依旧打不开。所以我确信什么地方一定有一个隐秘的弹簧，不一会儿我就找到了它。我按了一下，窗户就可以打开了。”

“我把钉子重新放回去，又想了一下。凶手从这扇窗户逃出去，之后窗户又在他身后关上了，靠着隐秘的弹簧自动锁住。但是这枚钉子——谁能够从外面把钉子放回去呢？”我走到另一扇窗户前，站在床上向下看被床头挡住的下半部分窗户。窗户上的钉子似乎是一样的，但是……我对自己说，这枚钉子一定 有问题。我碰了碰它——钉子帽儿竟然掉到了手里。余下的那截钉子仍然嵌在木头里。我小心翼翼地把掉下来的钉子帽儿重新安上去，按了一下隐秘的弹簧，窗户就可以向上推几厘米。钉子帽儿随窗户上下活动，但看起来和一个真正的钉子没什么区别。”

“这样，”我说，“我们就知道从床头后的窗户逃走是可能的。可是那个房间在五楼……”

“哦，”杜邦说，“这就是下一个该问的问题。你一定还记得我们怎样绕着房子走吧？你一定也看到了竖立在房子后墙上的避雷针？还有五楼窗户上与众不同的窗板？”

“对，”我答道，“它们很像门，但是上半部分却做成格状，这在巴黎倒不常见。”

“是的，”杜邦说，“并且很容易被手扒住。现在，让我给你描述一个可能的画面。墙上的避雷针距离床头边的窗户不到两米远。格状的窗板有一米多宽，当窗板打开并紧贴墙壁时，它离避雷针就只有大约半米远。顺着避雷针爬到五楼是有可能的。这样，一个身强力壮并且动作敏捷——极其 敏捷——的人就可以用双手抓住格状的窗板，双脚一蹬墙，身体就可以随窗板荡到窗户跟前。如果窗户恰巧是开着的而且这个人又确实身手敏捷，他就可以荡进房间里。”

杜邦注意到了我脸上惊讶的表情。“记住，”他说，“我说的是一个身体非常强壮、动作极为敏捷的人——他可能敏捷得超乎寻常。还要记住那个声音，那个古怪尖利的声音，说着一种无人知晓的语言。”

听到这些我感觉差不多已经明白了杜邦在说什么。但我还不敢肯定，于是默不作声，等着他继续解释。





6A madman has done this


A madman has done this

'You will see,' my friend went on, 'that I have tried to answer another question. Not just "How did the murderer get out of the room?", but also "How did he get into it?" He used the same window both ways, I think.'

'But now, let's look again at the room. You remember that on the floor there were two bags of gold, which Adolphe Le Bon carried to the house three days before.' The police are so excited by this! Nearly four thousand francs in gold! Here, they say, is the motive for the murder. Well, four thousand francs in gold is a lot of money, and is certainly a possible motive for murder. But remember, my friend, the gold was not taken—it was still there, on the floor. So what kind of thief is that? A very, very stupid one, a thief who murders two women and then when he leaves, forgets to take the gold with him! No, no, we must forget the gold. It was not the motive for these murders.

'So far, then, the picture is like this. We have a murderer with a peculiar voice, and who is unusually agile. We have a murder without motive, a murder that is brutal and horrible even for the worst kind of criminal. How many murderers kill with their own hands, and then push the body, head downwards, up a chimney? And how strong our murderer is! He pushed the body up alone, but it took three or four people to pull it down. And think of those handfuls of long grey hair on the floor. Have you ever tried to pull hair out of someone's head? You need to be very strong to do that. You also need to be strong to cut right through someone's neck—with just a razor. And why did the old lady have so many broken bones? Because the murderer pushed her body through the open window, and it fell down onto the stones of the yard below.

'One more thing to finish the picture. Remember what the room looked like-broken chairs and tables everywhere, the mattress on the floor, nothing in its place. Now, surely, our picture is finished. What kind of murderer is so unusually strong, so unusually agile, has so peculiar a voice, kills in so brutal and horrible a way, without motive? Tell me, what is the answer?'

I felt a little ill when Dupin asked me this question. I shook my head. 'A madman,' I said, 'has done this—a wild and horrible madman, who has escaped from some hospital somewhere.'

'That is a possible answer, certainly,' Dupin replied. 'But even madmen do not have as peculiar a voice as the one heard on the stairs. Madmen speak a language of some kind. Perhaps they say strange things, but at least they speak in words. Now, there is one more thing ...'

Dupin put his hand in his pocket and took something out. He put it on his hand and held it out to me. It was some short, orangey-brown hair.

'I took this from between the fingers of Madame L'Espanaye's hand,' he said. 'What do you make of it?'

'Dupin!' I said, astonished and afraid. 'This hair is most unusual. It is not human hair!'

'Did I say it was?' Dupin said. He put the hair back into his pocket, and then showed me a piece of paper. 'You remember the marks on the neck of Mademoiselle L'Espanaye—marks made by the fingers that killed her? Here is a drawing of those marks, just as they were on the neck. Now, please put your hand on the paper, with all your fingers in the same places as the marks.'

I tried to do this, but could not. I don't have small hands, but my fingers were much shorter and my hand much narrower than the marks on the drawing.

'These marks,' I said, 'were not made by a human hand.'

Dupin stood up and went to get a book from the table behind him. He brought the book to me.

'I want you to read this page,' he said.

The page described an animal that is found in the East Indian Islands—the orang-outang. It is a very large animal, bigger than a man, and is strong, agile, clever, and very, very dangerous. At once I understood just how horrible these murders were.

'Your drawing of the marks made by the fingers,' I said, 'is just as the book describes the orang-outang's hand. Also, the book describes its orangey-brown hair, which sounds just like the hair you showed me. But I still can't understand this terrible mystery. People heard two voices arguing—and the other voice was the voice of a Frenchman. Everybody agreed about that.'

'True,' said Dupin. 'And you will remember two of the words they heard—Mon Dieu . When do we say this? When we are angry, afraid, surprised, unhappy ... I have thought about these words and made a little picture of this Frenchman, which will answer all the questions in this mystery. This is my picture. A Frenchman brings home an orang-outang from the East Indian Islands, but one night the animal escapes from him. Our Frenchman follows it through the city, trying to catch it. When the orang-outang gets into the house in the Rue Morgue, the Frenchman sees what happens, but cannot catch the animal or stop it killing the two women.

'Is this picture a true one? Of course, I don't know. But if I am right, the Frenchman himself is innocent of these murders. And if he is innocent, perhaps he will answer my advertisement. I left it at the office of Le Monde newspaper on our way home last night.'

Dupin gave me a piece of paper, and I read this:

CAUGHT IN THE BOIS DE BOULOGNE, early in the morning of the 4th of June, a large orang-outang, probably from the East Indian Islands. The owner, who is a sailor on a Maltese ship, can have the animal back if he comes to the following address in the Faubourg St. Germain...

Once again, I was astonished by what Dupin knew. 'How could you possibly know,' I asked, 'that the man was a sailor, and that he belonged to a Maltese ship?'

'I do not know it,' said Dupin. 'I am not sure of it. But I found this small piece of ribbon on the ground at the bottom of the lightning-rod. Look.'

He gave me the ribbon to look at. It was a dark-red colour, and old and dirty.

'Sailors always use ribbons like these,' Dupin said, 'to tie back their long hair. And this colour is a favourite of Maltese sailors. You see, if I am right about this, it will make the man think carefully.'

'But will he answer the advertisement?' I said. 'He saw the terrible things that his orang-outang did. Won't he be afraid to say he is its owner?'

'Yes, he will he a little afraid,' said Dupin. 'But I hope that he will think like this, and will say to himself: I am innocent. I am poor. I can sell my orang-outang for a lot of money, and I don't want to lose that money. What danger am I in? They found the animal in the Bois de Boulogne—a long way from that house in the Rue Morgue. Who will ever know that the orang-outang did those murders? Or that I saw what happened? The police know nothing. But this advertiser knows something about me. If he wants to, he can find me easily. If I don't answer the advertisement, perhaps he will think that I have something to hide. He will start asking questions, about the animal, or about me, perhaps. No, it's better for me to answer the advertisement, get the orang-outang back, and keep the animal hidden away for a time.'

At the very moment when Dupin stopped speaking, we heard the sound of feet on the stairs.

stupid adj. foolish. 愚蠢的，笨的。

criminal n. person who commits a crime or crimes. 犯人，罪犯。

handful n. as much or as many as can be held in one hand. 一把，一撮。

madman n. person who is insane. 疯子，狂人。

make sth. of sth. understand the meaning or nature of sth. to be sth. 理解某物的意义或性质。

orang-outang n. large ape with long arms found in Borneo and Sumatra. 猩猩（产于婆罗洲和苏门答腊）。

dangerous adj. likely to cause danger or be a danger. 有危险的，危险的。

stop sb. (from) doing sth. prevent sb. from doing sth. 阻止某人做某事。

innocent adj. not guilty. 无辜的，无罪的，清白的。

advertisement n. public notice offering or asking for goods, services, etc. 广告（推销或征求货物、服务等）。

sailor n. member of a ship's crew, esp. one below the rank of officer; seaman. 海员；水手。

Maltese adj. of Malta. 马耳他的。

ribbon n. silk, nylon, etc. woven in a narrow strip and used for tying sth. or for ornament. （丝、尼龙等的）捆扎带，装饰带。

advertiser n. person who advertises. 登广告的人。





6 ．这是疯子所为


“你会发现，”我的朋友继续说，“我还一直想回答另外一个问题。”不光是‘凶手如何逃出 房间？’，还有‘他是如何进来 的？’我认为他出入都是靠着这扇窗户和同样的方法。

“但是现在，让我们再回到房间里。你记得吧，地上有阿道夫·勒邦三天前带到那儿的两袋子黄金。警方看到这些很是激动！将近4,000法郎的黄金啊！他们说这就是凶手的作案动机所在。的确，4,000法郎的黄金是很大一笔钱，当然可能 是凶手的一个作案动机。但记住，我的朋友，金子并没被拿走——它仍旧在那儿，放在地板上。这到底是怎样一种窃贼啊？他愚蠢至极，杀害了两个女人，走时却忘了带上金子！不，不，我们必须忘掉黄金。这不是这桩凶杀案的动机。”

“那么到目前为止，这幅画面是这样的。这个凶手声音古怪、动作异常敏捷。这个凶手没有作案动机，这个凶手的恐怖凶残甚至令最凶恶的罪犯也望尘莫及。有多少凶手会用手掐死被害人，然后把尸体头朝下地塞进烟囱呢？而且这个凶手会是多么强壮啊！他一个人就把尸体塞了进去，可是要三四个人一起才能把尸体拽出来。想想地板上那几撮灰色的长发。你有没有试过拔掉别人的头发？你必须非常强壮才行。你也必须非常强壮，才能够扎穿人的脖子——只用一把剃刀扎穿人的脖子。老太太为什么有如此多处的骨折呢？因为凶手把她的尸体从开着的窗户推了出去，尸体摔在了后院的石地上。”

“给这幅画面加上最后一笔。还记得那个房间什么样子吧——残桌破椅到处都是，床垫甩在地板上，一切都面目全非。好，现在我们的这幅图画完成了。是什么样的凶手，如此异常的强壮而又异常的敏捷，声音如此古怪，作案如此粗暴凶残，而又没有作案动机？告诉我，答案是什么？”

杜邦的问题让我有点难受。我摇了摇头。“是一个疯子，”我说，“是一个疯子干的——一个从某个医院逃出来的粗野恐怖的疯子。”

“当然那也是一种可能，”杜邦答道，“但是就算是疯子也不会发出在楼梯上听到的那种古怪的声音。疯子总归要说某一种语言的。他们可能会说一些奇奇怪怪的东西，但至少他们说的是字词。哦，还有一件东西……”

杜邦把手伸进口袋掏出了点什么。他把它放在手里伸给我看。是一撮棕黄色的短发。

“这是我从埃斯巴耐夫人的手指缝里找到的。”他说，“你怎么看？”

“杜邦！”我既惊讶又害怕，“这毛发很不一般。它不是人 的毛发！”

“我说过它是人的毛发吗？”杜邦说道。他把那些毛发放回口袋，然后拿给我一张纸。“还记得埃斯巴耐小姐脖子上的指痕吗——杀害她的凶手留下的指痕？这是按照脖子上的指痕描下来的指痕图。现在，请把你的手放在纸上，每根手指都要放在和指痕一模一样的位置上。”

我试了一下，却做不到。我的手并不算小，可是和图上的指痕比起来，我的手指短很多，手掌也窄很多。

“这些指痕，”我说，“不是人的手留下的。”

杜邦站起来从他后面的桌子上拿了一本书。他把书递给我。

“我想让你看看这页。”他说。

这页书讲的是在东印度群岛发现的一种动物——猩猩。它非常高大，比人的块头要大得多，强壮、敏捷、聪明，并且极其危险。我一下子明白这桩凶杀案有多么恐怖了。

“你画的指痕，”我说，“和这本书上描述的猩猩的手掌一模一样。还有，书上有关于它棕黄色皮毛的描述，听起来就和你给我看的那撮一样。可是我仍然想不通这桩可怕的迷案。人们听到了两个 争吵的声音——其中一个是一个法国男人的。这一点人们达成了共识。”

“对，”杜邦说，“你一定记得他们听到的那个词——‘天啊’。什么情况下我们才会说这个呢？生气、害怕、惊讶、郁闷……我仔细地想了想这些话，对这个法国人有了一个大致的描绘，有了这个，迷案中的所有问题就可以迎刃而解。这就是我的描绘。一个法国男人从东印度群岛带回了一只猩猩，但一天晚上猩猩从他那里逃跑了。这个法国人为了抓住它就跟着它在城里跑来跑去。后来猩猩闯进了莫尔格街的房子，这个法国人目睹了发生的一切，却无法抓住那动物或阻止它杀害那两个女人。”

“这个描绘的真实性如何呢？我当然不知道。但如果我是正确的，那这桩凶杀案就不是这个法国人本人干的。而如果他是清白的，他就有可能回应我的启事。昨晚在我们回家的路上我把这个给了《世界报》报社。”

杜邦递给我一张纸，上面写着：

6月4日清晨，在布洛涅的树林里抓到了一只可能来自东印度群岛的大猩猩。它的主人，一个在马耳他船上工作的水手，可以到圣日尔曼区领回这只动物，地址如下……

我又一次被杜邦所知道的东西吓了一跳。“你怎么会知道，”我问道，“那个人是一名水手，并且又在一条马耳他船上工作呢？”

“我不 知道，”杜邦说。“我也不能肯定 。但是我在避雷针底下的地面上发现了这条细丝带。你看。”

他把丝带递给我看。丝带是深红色的，又旧又脏。

“水手们经常用这样的丝带，”杜邦说，“把长发扎在后面。这个颜色是马耳他水手们很喜欢的一种。你看，如果我的这些推断是正确的，这个人可得好好盘算一下了。”

“但是他会回应那则启事吗？”我说道，“他目睹了他的猩猩的胡作非为，他难道不害怕承认自己是猩猩的主人吗？”

“对，他一定会有些害怕，”杜邦说，“不过我希望他会这么想，这样告诉他自己：我是清白的。我很穷。我的猩猩可以卖好大一笔钱，我可不想白白丢了这笔钱。我是不是正身处险境呢？他们是在布洛涅树林里找到那只动物的——那里离莫尔格街那所房子可很远呢。谁会想到那桩谋杀案是那只猩猩干的呢？谁会知道我目睹了那一切呢？警方一无所知。但是刊登启事的人知道我的一些情况。如果他想找到我，是很容易的。如果我不回应那则启事的话，他就可能认为我要隐瞒什么。他就会开始问很多问题，关于那只动物的，可能还有关于我的。不，我最好还是去回应那则启事吧，把猩猩领回来，把它藏匿一段时间。”

就在杜邦说完的那一刹那，我们听到了楼梯上传来的脚步声。





7A visitor for Auguste Dupin


A visitor for Auguste Dupin

'Be ready with your guns,' said Dupin. 'But don't use them or show them until I say.'

The front door of the house was open, and the visitor was already half way up the stairs. The feet stopped for a moment, then began again, and a few seconds later there was a knock on the door of our room.

'Come in,' called Dupin, in a friendly way.

The door opened and a man came in. He was a sailor, clearly—a tall, strong man, with a sunburnt face. He was carrying a heavy stick, but no gun. He looked first at me, then at Dupin, and did not smile.

'Good evening,' he said.

'Sit down, my friend,' said Dupin. 'You've come about the orang-outang, yes? My word, what a fine animal that is! You're lucky to own him. Do you know how old he is?'

The sailor sat down and the worried look left his face. 'No, I don't know,' he said. 'But he's probably not more than four or five years old. Have you got him here?'

'Oh, no. We couldn't keep him in this house,' Dupin said. 'He's at a place in the Rue Dubourg, just round the corner. You can get him in the morning. Of course, you must show me that you are the real owner.'

'Yes, sir, of course,' the sailor said.

'I shall be sorry to lose the animal,' said Dupin.

'I'm very happy to pay something,' the man said. 'I know it's expensive, keeping an animal like that.'

'Well,' said my friend, 'that's good of you. What shall I ask? Let me think ... Ah yes! This is what I want. You must tell me everything—everything —about these murders in the Rue Morgue.'

Dupin said these last words very quietly. Just as quietly, he walked to the door, locked it, and put the key in his pocket. He then took a gun from his coat pocket and put it, slowly and quietly, on the table in front of him.

The sailor's face turned a deep red. He jumped to his feet and took up his heavy stick. But a minute later he fell back into his chair, and sat there, shaking, with a face now as white as death itself. He said not a word. I felt deeply sorry for him.

'My friend,' said Dupin, in a kind voice, 'there's no need to be afraid—really no need. You are not in any danger from us. I know very well that you yourself are innocent of these terrible murders in the Rue Morgue. But you do know something about them. You are not a murderer, or a thief, and you have nothing to hide. But you must tell me the true story. The police have arrested an innocent man for these murders. And if you don't speak, this man will go to prison, perhaps lose his life.'

The sailor was silent for a while. Then he said, 'God help me. I will tell you what I know. You will think it's a very strange story, but it's true. I am innocent, and I must help this other man if I can.'

This was the sailor's story.

I have just come back from the East Indies. While I was there, I visited the island of Borneo. There I found and caught this orang-outang. It is a wild and dangerous animal, and I had a difficult journey home. But at last, we arrived back in France, and I took the animal to my house in Paris. I kept it hidden because of the neighbours, and I was planning to sell it as soon as possible for a lot of money.

On the night of the 3rd of June I was out late with some friends. When I got back home, I found the orang-outang in my bedroom, with my razor in its hand. The door to its own room was broken to pieces. I just didn't know what to do. The animal is dangerous at the best of times, but with a razor in its hands...! On the ship home I always used a whip to keep the animal quiet, so I went to find my whip now. But the minute the orang-outang saw the whip, it ran out of the room, down the stairs, and jumped through an open window into the street.

I was really afraid now. How could I catch it? The animal ran, and I followed. Sometimes it stopped and looked at me, the razor still in its hand. But when I got near, it ran on again. And so we went on. Luckily, the streets were very quiet because it was nearly three o'clock in the morning.

Then, when we were going down a narrow street at the back of the Rue Morgue, the animal saw a light in a window on the fourth floor. Before I could do anything, the animal saw the lightning-rod, quickly climbed up it, took hold of the latticed shutter, and swung itself through the open window. All this took less than a minute. The shutter then swung open again, back against the wall.

At last, I thought, I can catch the animal now. But at the same time, I felt very worried. What was the animal doing in that room up there? I decided to follow it up the lightning-rod at once. When I got to the fourth floor, I found it was impossible for me to get across to the window. I could just look into the room—and at that moment a most terrible screaming began. God help me, I will never, ever forget the horrible things that I saw that night.

The orang-outang took hold of Madame L'Espanaye by the hair, with the razor still in its other hand. The daughter fainted at once, and lay still and white on the floor. The old lady tried to get away, but the animal pulled out handfuls of her hair. She fought and screamed, and this probably made it very angry. Then, with the razor, it nearly cut her head off her body. So much blood! And the blood made the animal even angrier. It ran to the girl's body and fastened its horrible hands around her neck. When she was dead, it looked up—and saw my face through the window. I was shouting at it, and it made noises back at me. Perhaps then it remembered my whip, and perhaps that's why it tried to hide the dead bodies. If you can't see anything, then nothing has happened. I don't know. First, it ran around the room, breaking all the chairs and tables, pulling the mattress off the bed. Then, it took the girl's body and pushed it up the chimney. And last, it took the old lady's body, carried it to the window, and pushed it through.

I could not watch any more. I almost fell down the lightning-rod, and ran home. I just wanted to get away from the horror of it.

□　　□　　□

So that was the story behind the murders in the Rue Morgue. Just before the neighbours broke down the door of the room, the orang-outang went out through the window, which dropped down behind it.

In the end the sailor caught the orang-outang and sold it for a lot of money. We went to talk to the police inspector, and the same afternoon Adolphe Le Bon walked out of prison, a free man. The inspector was not too happy about it all. He talked a lot about people who tried to do the job of the police but who didn't understand police work.

'We won't argue with him,' Dupin said to me when we walked home together. 'Let him talk. He's a good man, in his way. I found the answer to this mystery, and he didn't. That's all there is to say, really.'

sunburnt adj. sun-tanned. 晒黑的。

my word exclamation nexpressing surprise or consternation. 用作表示惊奇或惊恐的叹词。

just round the corner nvery near. 很近。

jump to one's feet stand up quickly and suddenly. 立刻站起来。

go to prison imprisonment. 入狱，坐牢。

at the best of times even when circumstances are most favourable. 即使在最好的情况下。

whip n. length of cord or strip of leather fastened to a handle, used for urging on an animal or for striking a person or an animal as a punishment. 鞭子。

take hold of... take... in the hands. 抓住，拿住，握住……

faint vi. lose consciousness (because of heat, shock, loss of blood, etc. ). （因受热、受惊、失血等）失去知觉；昏倒。

get away from... escape from... 逃离或摆脱开。





7 ．奥古斯特·杜邦的访客


“准备好手枪，”杜邦说，“如果我不说话就不要开枪，也不要把枪拿出来。”

房子的前门是开着的，来访者已经上了一半楼梯。脚步声停了一会儿，然后又继续响起来，几秒钟以后我们听到了敲门声。

“请进。”杜邦友好地喊道。

门开了，一个男人走了进来。一看便知他是个水手——身材高大、体格健硕，脸被晒得黝黑。他带着一根粗重的棍子，但没有手枪。他先是看了看我，然后又看了看杜邦，脸上没有一丝笑容。

“晚上好。”他说。

“请坐，我的朋友，”杜邦说，“您是为那只猩猩而来，对吗？呀，多棒的动物啊！能做他的主人您真幸运。您知道他几岁了吗？”

那个水手坐下，脸上的顾虑消失了。“不，我不知道，”他说，“他可能不超过四五岁。您把他带到这儿来了吗？”

“哦，没有。我们可不能把他养在这个房子里，”杜邦说，“他在迪布尔街的某个地方，不远。您上午就可以领走他。当然，您必须向我证明您是真正的主人。”

“好的，先生，那是自然。”水手说道。

“没有了这只动物我会很伤心的。”杜邦说。

“我很乐意补偿您，”那人说，“我知道养活那样一只动物是很昂贵的。”

“啊，”我的朋友说，“您真是通情达理。我该要些什么呢？让我想想……啊，对了！这就是我想知道的。您必须告诉我关于莫尔格街凶杀案的一切——一切 。”

杜邦说最后几个字时声音非常小。他同样轻轻地走到门口，锁住门，把钥匙放进口袋。然后他从外衣口袋里掏出了一把枪，慢慢地，悄无声息地放在面前的桌子上。

水手的脸涨得通红。他一下子站了起来，手里攥住那根粗重的棍子。但很快他又跌坐在了椅子上，浑身战栗，脸色变得死一样的苍白。他沉默不语。我很为他难过。

“我的朋友，”杜邦说，声音很是亲切，“没必要害怕——真的没必要。我们不会对你构成一丝危险。我很清楚莫尔格街那桩凶杀案不是你干的。可你是知情的。你既不是凶手也不是窃贼，没什么好隐瞒的。但是你必须把实情告诉我。警方已经误抓了一个无辜的人。如果你不把实情说出来，这个人就会坐牢，可能还会丢掉性命。”

水手沉默了一会儿。然后他说：“老天爷作证。我会把我知道的都告诉你。你会觉得这个故事很离奇，可这是真的。我是 无辜的，我必须尽可能地帮助另一个无辜的人。”

水手的故事是这样的。

我刚从东印度群岛回来。在那里逗留期间我去了婆罗洲岛。在岛上我发现并抓住了这只猩猩。它非常的粗野危险，所以回国的途中我费尽周折。不过总算回到了法国，我把它带到我在巴黎的房子里。因为怕邻居知道，我只好把它藏起来，打算尽快把它卖掉赚上一大笔钱。

6月3号晚上我外出和朋友聚会，很晚才回家。到家后，发现那只猩猩竟然站在我的卧室里，手里还拿着我的剃刀。通往它房间的门被砸成了碎片。我一下子手足无措起来。这种动物在赤手空拳的时候都很危险，何况它现在还拿着剃刀……！在乘船返回的路上我总是用一根鞭子让它保持安静，于是我就去找那根鞭子。但是这只猩猩一看到鞭子，就跑出房间，跑下楼梯，从一扇开着的窗户跳到了街上。

我害怕极了。怎么才能抓到它呢？它在前面跑，我就在后面追。有时候它停住脚，看看我，手里依然拿着那把剃刀。可我一靠近，它就又跑起来。我们就这样你追我赶地跑着。幸好当时街上寂静无人，因为那时已经是将近凌晨3点了。

后来，我们跑到了莫尔格街后面的一条狭窄的小巷，那家伙看到了五楼一扇窗户透出来的灯光。我还没来得及阻止，它就看见了那根避雷针，飞快地爬了上去，抓住格状的窗板，从开着的窗户荡进了房间。干完这一切它只用了不到一分钟。窗板随后又被弹了回来，紧贴着墙壁。

我想我终于可以抓到它了。可当时我也非常担心。这家伙在上面的房间里干什么呢？我决定立刻跟着它顺避雷针爬上去。爬到五楼后，我发现自己不可能从窗户进去。我只能从这儿往屋里瞧了——就在这个时候，传来一声非常凄厉的尖叫。老天爷作证，我今生今世都忘不了那晚看到的可怕的一幕。

那只猩猩一只手抓住了埃斯巴耐夫人的头发，另一只手里依旧拿着那把剃刀。老夫人的女儿立刻就昏倒了，一动不动地躺在地板上，脸色苍白。老太太努力想挣脱，却被那猩猩拽掉了几撮头发。她边挣扎边尖叫，或许这激怒了猩猩。于是猩猩就用那把剃刀把她的头几乎割了下来了。鲜血四溅！血让那家伙更加愤怒了。它跑到那女孩儿的身边，用它那双可怕的手紧紧地卡住了她的脖子。把她掐死后，那家伙抬起头——透过窗户看到了我的脸。我冲它嚷，它也大叫着回敬我。后来它可能记起了我的鞭子，或许这就是它为什么想把尸体藏起来的原因。见则有，不见则无吧。我不知道。它先是在房间里跑来跑去，弄坏了全部桌椅，把床垫也拽了下来。然后它抓起女孩的尸体竖着塞进了烟囱。最后，它又抓起老太太的尸体拖到窗口，扔了下去。

这真是惨不忍睹。我几乎是从避雷针上掉下来的，赶紧跑回家了。我只想摆脱那份恐惧。

□　　□　　□

这就是发生在莫尔格街凶杀案背后的故事。就在邻居们撞开房门之前，那只猩猩从窗户逃了出去，窗户随之关上了。

后来水手抓住了那只猩猩，卖了一大笔钱。我们把这一切告诉了那个巡官，当天下午阿道夫·勒邦走出了监狱，是个自由人了。巡官对这一切并不是很满意。他滔滔不绝地讲了很多，什么有些人总想当警察，却从不了解这份工作啦什么的。

“我们不和他争论，”一起回家的路上杜邦对我说，“让他说去吧。他就是那样，不过人还是不错的。我发现了谜底，他却没有。其实就是这些。”





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1．Read the introduction of the book. How much do you know now about the story? Correct the mistakes in this passage.

The old lady and her son were murdered on the second floor of a house in the Rue Morgue in London. The door was open, with the key on the outside of the door, and the windows were shut but not fastened. Two laughing voices were heard by friends when they ran up the stairs.

2．Can you guess what happens in this story? Choose endings for these sentences.

1) The murderer escaped...

(a) from the roof.

(b) through a window.

(c) through the door.

(d) down a secret stair.

2) People thought the two angry voices spoke in...

(a) French.

(b) Russian.

(c) English.

(d) French and another language.

3) The police arrested...

(a) a Russian sailor.

(b) one of the neighbours.

(c) a bank clerk.

(d) the daughter's lover.

4) The police arrested...

(a) the right person.

(b) the wrong person.





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1．Read Chapter 1. How did Auguste Dupin work out what his friend was thinking? Put these notes in the right order (from 1 to 8), to show how his thinking went.

□ thinking of Racine's play

□ Chantilly 'the new Racine'

□ nearly falling over

□ jumping out of the way

□ meeting the apple-seller

□ turning into the Rue Racine

□ looking at the street name

□ hole in the street

2．Read Chapters 2 and 3. How much do we know now about the mystery? Which of these things are we sure about, and which are only guesses? Explain why you think this.

1) Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter lived very quietly.

2) They had no friends, and no enemies.

3) The razor was used to kill the mother.

4) The neighbours heard two voices, arguing loudly.

5) The deep voice was a man's voice, and spoke in French.

6) The shrill voice was the voice of a woman.

7) The shrill voice spoke in Italian.

8) The shrill voice spoke in Russian.

9) The murderer was very strong.

10) The murderer forgot to take the gold when he left.

11) The murderer was not interested in the gold.

3．Before you read Chapter 4, can you guess what Auguste Dupin will do next? Choose some of these ideas.

Auguste Dupin will...

1) talk to all the witnesses again.

2) ask some clever questions.

3) visit all the neighbours' houses.

4) look for a heavy piece of wood.

5) visit the Rue Morgue and look carefully at the room.

6) tell the police the murderer's name.

4．Read Chapters 4 and 5, and join these halves of sentences.

1) The police arrested Adolphe Le Bon...

2) Dupin was waiting for a visitor...

3) The witnesses agreed about the deep voice, ...

4) The witnesses all thought that the shrill voice was the voice of a foreigner, ...

5) The windows were fastened with nails on the in side, ...

6) An agile person could climb up the lightning-rod...

7) but they did not agree which language it spoke.

8) which they said was the voice of a Frenchman.

9) probably because they thought he wanted to steal the four thousand francs.

10) and swing into the room through the open window.

11) who knew something about the murders.

12) but the nail in the right window was broken.

5．Before you read Chapter 6, how much can you guess about the mystery? Think about these questions.

1) Is Dupin right about the window and the lightning-rod?

Is there another way of escaping from the room?

2) The narrator isn't sure that he understands. What is Dupin trying to tell him?

6．Read Chapter 6. How did these things help Dupin to find the answer? Explain what he was thinking for each thing.

1) the four thousand francs in gold

2) the handfuls of long grey hair

3) the peculiar voice

4) the short, orangey-brown hair

5) the old, dirty dark-red ribbon

6) the Bois de Boulogne

7．Before you read Chapter 7, can you guess how the story ends? Choose as many answers as you like.

1) The sailor ...

(a) tries to run away.

(b) tells Dupin the true story.

(c) is sent to prison.

(d) is the real murderer.

2) The orang-outang ...

(a) is never found.

(b) kills two more people.

(c) is shot and killed.

(d) is sold for a lot of money.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


1．What did Dupin say to the police inspector at the end? Put their conversation in the right order, and write in the speakers' names. Dupin speaks first (number 3).

1) ______ 'But I know how to think. I know what questions to ask. And you'll find my answer is right.'

2) ______ 'A WHAT ?'

3) ______ 'I have come to tell you, Inspector, the answer to the Rue Morgue mystery.'

4) ______ 'Oh, will I? What makes you so sure?'

5) ______ 'An orang-outang. It escaped from its owner's house with a razor, and climbed into the room through the window.'

6) ______ 'But we already know the answer, Dupin. The bank clerk murdered the women for the money.'

7) ______ 'Because I have a witness—who was outside the window on the lightning-rod, and who saw it all.'

8) ______ 'An orang-outang with a razor? Listen, Dupin, don't try to do my job for me. You don't know anything about police work.'

9) ______ 'No, he didn't. Adolphe Le Bon is an innocent man. The killer was an orang-outang from Borneo.'

2．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes on in Chapter ______.

1) Where is the sailor?

2) Why is he shouting?

3) What does he do next, and why?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption : _____________________________

3．Here are some more newspaper stories from the Gazette . Use the words below to complete the stories. (Use each word once.)

agile, arrested, bank, belongs, caught,dropped, escaped, feel, free, hands, horrible, how, hurt, into, motive, out of, outside, same, sell, shutter, thousand, through, up, which, who

STORY ONE

Adolphe Le Bon, ______ works for Mignaud & Son as a ______ clerk, today left prison, a ______ man. The police ______ him because they thought that the ______ for the murders was the four______ francs in gold, ______ Le Bon carried to the house for Madame L'Espanaye. 'But it was all a ______ mistake,' said a friend of Le Bon's. 'Adolphe couldn't ______ a fly.'

STORY TWO

The police now know ______ the murderer got ______ and ______ the room in the house in the Rue Morgue. He climbed ______ the lightning-rod on the wall ______, and took hold of the open ______ with both ______. Then he pushed his ______ against the wall and swung himself into the room ______ the open window. He went out the ______ way, and the window ______ down behind him.

STORY THREE

Early this morning an orang-outang was ______ in the Bois de Boulogne. The animal, which comes from Borneo, ______ to a sailor and ______ from his house four days ago. It is a large animal, and is strong, ______, and very dangerous. The sailor is planning to ______ it as soon as he can.

4．Now write a fourth story for the newspaper, saying what really happened. You could begin like this:

At last we have the answer to the brutal Rue Morgue murders. The two women were killed by ...

5．Here are some headlines for the newspaper stories. Choose the best headline for each of the four stories.

ASTONISHING ANSWER TO RUE MORGUE TRAGEDY

POLICE ARRESTED INNOCENT MAN

WILD ANIMAL FOUND IN CITY PARK

KEEP YOUR SHUTTERS CLOSED AT NIGHT!

6．After the fourth story, some people wrote letters to the newspapers. Do you agree with any of them? Explain why.

1) 'Why is this animal still alive? It killed two innocent women. Someone must shoot it at once!'

2) 'The sailor must go to prison. The animal belonged to him and he let it escape. He must not make any money from selling it.'

3) 'It is wrong to bring a wild animal to a city. The orang-outang's home is in Borneo and it must go back there.'

京权图字 01-96-1577

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 1993

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

鲁宾孙漂流记：英汉对照／（英）笛福（Defoe, D.）著；马宇翔，潘小丽译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，1997.1（2014.9 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of Robinson Crusoe

ISBN 978-7-5600-1175-2

Ⅰ．鲁…　Ⅱ．①笛…②马…③潘…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②长篇小说—英国—近代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2011）第087027号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 1997年1月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-1175-2

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





简　介


你曾长期独处过吗？你能够孤身一人在荒岛上生活多年吗？你能够给自己建造房屋，学会种植谷物并制作面包、学会用动物的皮为自己缝制衣服吗？

鲁宾孙·克鲁索厌倦了英国家里恬静的生活。他决意成为一名海员，周游世界。他有很多激动人心的冒险经历，并于1659年登上了一艘从巴西开往非洲的船。一天，来了一场可怕的风暴，轮船开始碎裂，克鲁索和他的朋友们立即为求生而与愤怒的大海抗争。所有的朋友都死了，唯有克鲁索活下来并到达了陆地。他发现自己在一个陌生、荒凉的国度——还活着，却孤独地在一个小岛上，没有食物，没有船只，无路可逃。

随后的27年他将在那儿生活……

丹尼尔·笛福生于1660年，死于1731年。他的一生惊险刺激，他曾作过记者和间谍，并由于政治性的作品而几番入狱。他一生中写了许多书，但《鲁宾孙漂流记》是他最著名的小说。





1My first sea journey


My first sea journey

Before I begin my story, I would like to tell you a little about myself.

I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York in the north of England. My father was German, but he came to live and work in England. Soon after that, he married my mother, who was English. Her family name was Robinson, so, when I was born, they called me Robinson, after her.

My father did well in his business and I went to a good school. He wanted me to get a good job and live a quiet, comfortable life. But I didn't want that. I wanted adventure and an exciting life.

'I want to be a sailor and go to sea,' I told my mother and father. They were very unhappy about this.

'Please don't go,' my father said. 'You won't be happy, you know. Sailors have a difficult and dangerous life.' And because I loved him, and he was unhappy, I tried to forget about the sea.

But I couldn't forget, and about a year later, I saw a friend in town. His father had a ship, and my friend said to me, 'We're sailing to London tomorrow. Why don't you come with us?'

And so, on September 1st, 1651, I went to Hull, and the next day we sailed for London.

But, a few days later, there was a strong wind. The sea was rough and dangerous, and the ship went up and down, up and down. I was very ill, and very afraid.

'Oh, I don't want to die!' I cried. 'I want to live! If I live, I'll go home and never go to sea again!'

The next day the wind dropped, and the sea was quiet and beautiful again.

'Well, Bob,' my friend laughed. 'How do you feel now? The wind wasn't too bad.'

'What!' I cried. 'It was a terrible storm.'

'Oh, that wasn't a storm,' my friend answered. 'Just a little wind. Forget it. Come and have a drink.'

After a few drinks with my friend, I felt better. I forgot about the danger and decided not to go home. I didn't want my friends and family to laugh at me!

I stayed in London for some time, but I still wanted to go to sea. So, when the captain of a ship asked me to go with him to Guinea in Africa, I agreed. And so I went to sea for the second time.

It was a good ship and everything went well at first, but I was very ill again. Then, when we were near the Canary Islands, a Turkish pirate ship came after us. They were famous thieves of the sea at that time. There was a long, hard fight, but when it finished, we and the ship were prisoners.

The Turkish captain and his men took us to Sallee in Morocco. They wanted to sell us as slaves in the markets there. But in the end the Turkish captain decided to keep me for himself, and took me home with him. This was a sudden and terrible change in my life. I was now a slave and this Turkish captain was my master.

adventure n. doing something exciting, dangerous, etc. 冒险；惊险活动。

journey n. going from one place to another. 旅行；旅 程。

sailor n. someone who helps to control a boat or ship. 船员；水手；水兵。

rough adj. not moving gently. 狂暴的。

drop v. become lower or weaker. 变弱；降低。

pirate n. someone who sails on the sea and robs other ship. 海盗。





1 　我的第一次海上旅行


开始我的故事之前，我想先向你谈一点我自己的情况。

我1632年出生在英国北部的约克市。我父亲是德国人，但他却来到英国居住和工作。此后不久，他与我母亲结了婚。我母亲是英国人，娘家姓鲁宾孙，因此，我出生后他们都称呼我鲁宾孙，沿用了我母亲的姓氏。

我父亲在生意上做得很出色，并且我也进了一所好学校。他希望我得到好的工作，过一种平静、舒适的生活。但是我不希望如此，我喜欢冒险和刺激的生活。

“我想成为一名水手去航行。”我告诉父母亲。他们对此很不高兴。

“不要去，”父亲说，“你知道你不会幸福的。水手过着艰苦而危险的生活。”因为我爱父亲，他不高兴，我只能尽力忘掉大海。

但我不可能忘掉，大约一年后，我在镇上遇到一个朋友。他父亲有一艘船，他对我说：“明天我们起航去伦敦。你为什么不和我们一起去呢？”

于是，1651年9月1日，我去了赫尔港，第二天我们驶向伦敦。

但是，几天后，刮起了狂风，狂暴的大海危机四伏，船不断颠簸。我晕船晕得厉害，非常害怕。

“哦，我不想死！”我哭喊起来，“我想活着！假如我活着，我就要回家，再也不出海了！”

第二天，风停了，大海又重新恢复了平静和美丽。

“好了，鲍伯，”我的朋友笑着说。“现在你感觉如何？这风并没那么厉害。”

“什么！”我大叫起来，“这可是一场可怕的风暴。”

“哦，这不算风暴，”我的朋友回答，“仅仅是小风而已。忘记它吧。来，喝一杯。”

和朋友喝了几杯之后，我感觉好多了。我忘记了危险，决定不回家了。我不愿意我的朋友和家人嘲笑我！

我在伦敦停留了一段时间，但仍然想去海上航行。所以，当一位船长要求我和他一起去非洲的几内亚时，我答应了。于是，我第二次出海了。

这是一艘很好的船，开始一切都很顺利，但是我又晕得厉害。此后，当我们接近加纳利群岛时，一艘土耳其海盗船跟上了我们。他们是当时有名的海盗。经过一场长时间的激烈交火，一切都结束时，我们连人带船都成了俘虏。

土耳其船长和他的部下把我们带到摩洛哥的萨利。他们想在那儿的市场上把我们当作奴隶卖掉。但最后土耳其船长决定把我留给他自己，带我回了他的家。

这是我人生中一次突然的可怕变故。现在我成了奴隶，这位土耳其船长成了我的主人。





2Down the coast of Africa


Down the coast of Africa

For two long years I lived the life of a slave. I worked in the house and the garden, and every day I planned to escape, but it was never possible. I thought about it day and night. My master liked to go fishing in a little boat, and he always took me with him. A man called Moely, and a young boy also went with us.

One day my master said to us, 'Some of my friends want to go fishing tomorrow. Get the boat ready.'

So we put a lot of food and drink on the boat, and the next morning, we waited for my master and his friends. But when my master arrived, he was alone.

'My friends don't want to go fishing today,' he said to me. 'But you go with Moely and the boy, and catch some fish for our supper tonight.'

'Yes, master,' I answered quietly, but inside I was excited. 'Perhaps now I can escape,' I said to myself.

My master went back to his friends and we took the boat out to sea. For a time we fished quietly, and then I moved carefully behind Moely and knocked him into the water. 'Swim!' I cried. 'Swim to the shore!'

My master liked to shoot seabirds and so there were guns on the boat. Quickly, I took one of these guns. Moely was swimming after the boat and I shouted to him：

Go back to the shore! You can swim there—it's not too far. I won't hurt you, but if you come near the boat, I'll shoot you through the head!' So Moely turned, and swam back to the shore as quickly as he could.

Then I said to the boy, 'Xury, if you help me, I'll be a good friend to you. If you don't help me, I'll push you into the sea too.'

But Xury was happy to help me. 'I'll go all over the world with you,' he cried.

I wanted to sail to the Canary Islands, but I was afraid to go too far from the shore. It was only a small boat. And so we sailed on south for some days. We had very little water, and it was dangerous country here, with many wild animals. We were afraid, but we often had to go on shore to get more water. Once I used a gun to shoot a wild animal. I don't know what animal it was, but it made a good meal.

For about ten or twelve days we sailed on south, down the coast of Africa. Then one day we saw some people on the shore—strange, wild people, who did not look friendly. By now we had very little food, and We really needed help, we were afraid, but we had to go on shore.

At first, they were afraid of us, too. Perhaps white people never visited this coast. We did not speak their language, of course, so we used our hands and faces to show that we were hungry. They came with food for us, but then they moved away quickly. We carried the food to our boat, and they watched us. I tried to thank them, but I had nothing to give them.

Just then two big wild cats came down to the shore from the mountains. I think they were leopards. The people were afraid of these wild cats, and the women cried out. Quickly, I took a gun, and shot one of the animals. The second wild cat ran back up into the mountains.

Guns were new to these African people, and they were afraid of the loud noise and the smoke. But they were happy about the dead wild cat. I gave them the meat of the dead animal, and they gave us more food and water.

We now had a lot of food and water, and we sailed on. Eleven days later we came near the Cape Verde Islands. We could see them, but we couldn't get near because there was no wind. We waited.

Suddenly Xury called to me, 'Look, a ship!'

He was right! We called and shouted and sailed our little boat as fast as we could. But the ship did not see us. Then I remembered the guns which made a lot of smoke. A few minutes later the ship saw us and turned.

When we were on the ship, the Portuguese captain listened to my story. He was going to Brazil and agreed to help me, but he wanted nothing for his help. 'No,' he said, when I tried to pay him. 'Perhaps, one day, someone will help me when I need it.'

But he gave me money for my boat, and for Xury, too. At first, I did not want to sell Xury as a slave, after all our dangerous adventures together. But Xury was happy to go to the captain, and the captain was a good man. 'In ten years' time,' he said, 'Xury can go free.'

When we arrived in Brazil three weeks later, I said goodbye to the captain and Xury, left the ship, and went to begin a new life.

escape v. get free from something or someone. 逃跑；逃脱。

perhaps adv. maybe; possibly. 也许；可能。

shore n. ground next to the sea. 岸。

animal n. any living thing that is not an insect, plant, fish, or person. 动物。

coast n. land by the sea. 海岸；海滨（地区）。

leopards n. big, wild animal with yellow fur and dark spots. 豹。





2 　南下非洲海岸


漫长的两年时间里，我过着奴隶的生活。我在屋子里、花园里干活，每天都计划着逃跑，但一直没能成功。我日夜思考着逃跑的事。我的主人喜欢乘小船去钓鱼，而且总是带上我，一个名叫莫雷的男人及一个小男孩也总跟随着我们。

一天主人对我们说：“我有些朋友明天想去钓鱼，把船准备好。”

于是，我们把很多食物和饮料搬到了船上，在第二天早上，我们等候着主人和他的朋友，但主人来时却是他独自一人。

“我的朋友今天不想去钓鱼了，”他对我说，“但你和莫雷及这孩子去为我们今天的晚餐捕些鱼来。”

“是，主人。”我平静地回答，但我内心很激动，心想，“也许这回我可以逃脱了。”

主人回到他的朋友们那儿去了，我们坐船出了海。静静地钓了一阵鱼，然后我小心翼翼地移到莫雷的身后把他推到了海里。“游回去，”我大声喊着，“朝岸上游！”

我的主人喜欢打海鸟，所以有几只枪在船上。我迅速地抓过一支枪，莫雷正跟在船后面游，我朝他叫道：

“回到岸上去！你可以游到那儿，这儿离海岸不太远。我不会伤害你，但如果你靠近这只船，我就会打穿你的脑袋！”于是，莫雷转过身尽他最快的速度游回岸上去了。

然后，我对这小孩说：“苏里，如果你帮我，我会是你的好朋友，如果你不帮我，我同样会把你丢到海里去。”

但苏里很乐意帮助我。“我愿意跟着你走遍世界。”他大声说。

我想驶向加纳利岛，但是不敢远离海岸，这只是一只小船。因此我们向南航行了几天，我们只有很少的水，这儿是危险的国度，有许多野生动物。我们害怕，但是我们常常不得不上岸去取水，有一次我用枪射死了一只野兽，我不知道这是什么动物，但它成了一顿美餐。

沿着非洲海岸我们朝南航行了大约10天至12天，随后一天我们看到岸上有些人——怪模怪样的野人，他们看起来并不友善。那时我们的食物已经很少了，我们实在需要帮助，虽然害怕，但我们不得不上岸。

开始，他们也害怕我们，或许白人从没有访问过这海岸。当然，我们不会说他们的语言，我们只好用手势和面部表情来表明我们很饿。他们把食物给我们，随即迅速地离开。我们把食物搬上船，他们瞧着我们。我试图感谢他们，却又没有什么东西可以送给他们。

正在这时候，两只大野猫从山上窜到海边来，我想它们是豹子。那些人害怕这些野猫，妇女们尖叫起来。很快地，我拿起一枝枪，击中了其中一只野兽。另外一只跑回了山里。

枪对这些非洲居民来说很新奇，他们害怕这轰响的声音与烟雾。但他们对死的野猫很感兴趣。我送给他们这只死兽的肉，他们给了我们更多的食物和水。

现在我们有了很多的食物和水，我们继续航行。11天后我们接近佛得角群岛。我们可以看见它们，但由于没有风我们不能靠近。我们等候着。

突然，苏里对我叫着：“看哪，一只船！”

他是对的！我们叫喊着并且尽可能快地划着小船。但是那只船并没看到我们。这时我想起枪可以产生很多烟雾。几分钟后那只船看到了我们并且转了过来。

等我们上了他们的船，葡萄牙船长倾听了我的故事。他正要去巴西并且答应帮助我，但他对我的帮助不要任何报偿。当我试图付钱给他时，他说：“不，也许有一天，当我需要帮助时，有人也会帮助我 。”

但是他却付钱买下我的船，也买下了苏里。起初，我不愿意把苏里卖作奴隶，毕竟我们一起经历了危险的旅程。但苏里很乐意跟随船长，这位船长是一个好人。“十年后，”他说，“苏里将会获得自由。”

三星期后我们抵达巴西，我告别了船长和苏里，离开了这艘轮船，继续开始一段新的生活。





3The storm and the shipwreck


The storm and the shipwreck

I stayed in Brazil and worked hard for some years. By then I was rich... but also bored. One day some friends came to me and said, 'We're going to Africa to do business. Why don't you come with us? We'll all be rich after this journey!'

How stupid I was! I had an easy, comfortable life in Brazil, but, of course, I agreed. And so, in 1659,I went to sea again.

At first, all went well, but then there was a terrible storm. For twelve days the wind and the rain didn't stop. We lost three men in the sea, and soon the ship had holes in its sides. 'We're all going to die this time,'I said to myself. Then one morning one of the sailors saw land, but the next minute our ship hit some sand just under the sea. The ship could not move and we were really in danger now. The sea was trying to break the ship into pieces, and we had very little time. Quickly, we put a boat into the sea and got off the ship. But the sea was very rough and our little boat could not live for long in that wild water.

Half an hour later the angry sea turned our boat over and we were all in the water. I looked round for my friends, but I could see nobody. I was alone.

That day I was lucky, and the sea carried me to the shore. I could not see the land, only mountains of water all around me. Then, suddenly, I felt the ground under my feet. Another mountain of water came, pushed me up the beach, and I fell on the wet sand.

At first I was very thankful to be alive. Slowly, I got to my feet and went higher up the shore. From there, I looked out to sea. I could see our ship, but it was wrecked and there was nobody near it. There was nobody in the water. All my friends were dead. I was alive, but in a strange wild country, with no food, no water, and no gun.

It was dark now and I was tired. I was afraid to sleep on the shore. Perhaps there were wild animals there. So I went up into a tree and I stayed there all night.

shipwreck n. accident when a ship breaks up in a storm or on the rocks. 船只失事。

stupid adj. foolish; with very slow thinking. 愚蠢的；愚笨的。

beach n. flat strip of sand or stones beside the sea. 海滩。

wreck v. to destroy. 毁坏；弄坏。





3 　风暴与海难


我留在巴西苦干了几年，不久我就有了一笔钱……但我又感到了厌倦。一天，一些朋友来看我并对我说：“我们将要去非洲做生意。为什么你不和我们一起去呢？这次航行后我们都会发财的！”

我当时是多么地傻啊！我在巴西已有了轻松、舒适的生活，然而我又同意了。于是，在1659年，我又一次出海了。

最初，一帆风顺，但不久就来了一场可怕的风暴。狂风暴雨持续了12天没有停息。我们在海上失去了三个同伴，而且没多久，船舷上就出现了漏洞。“这回我们都活不成了。”我自言自语。一天早上，一个水手看见了陆地，但紧接着我们的船就触到了海底的沙滩，船没法移动，我们此刻真正地陷入了危险之中。海浪似乎极力地想把船击成碎片，我们的时间不多了。我们迅速地把小艇放到海里，离开了船。但大海太粗暴了，我们的小船在这样的大浪中根本没法长时间航行。

半个小时后，愤怒的大海掀翻了我们的小船，我们全都落到了水里。我四处张望寻找我的伙伴，但却看不到一个人。只剩我一人了。

那天，我是幸运的，海水把我送到了岸边。我没法看见陆地，我的四周只有山一样高的巨浪。突然间我触到了脚下的陆地。又一排巨浪盖过来，把我推上了沙滩，我跌倒在湿湿的沙地上。

最初，我非常庆幸我还活着。慢慢地我站起来，走到高处的岸上。在那儿，我眺望大海，能看见我们的船，但它已倾覆了。船的附近没有一个人，水中也没有人。我的伙伴们都死了。我活着，但却在一个陌生、荒凉的国度，没有食物，没有水，没有枪。

此刻，天黑了，我很累，又不敢睡在岸上，也许这儿有野兽，于是我只好爬到一棵树上过了一夜。





4A new life on an island


A new life on an island

When day came, the sea was quiet again. I looked for our ship and, to my surprise, it was still there and still in one piece. I think I can swim to it, I said to myself. So I walked down to the sea and before long, I was at the ship and was swimming round it. But how could I get on to it? In the end, I got in through a hole in the side, but it wasn't easy.

There was a lot of water in the ship, but the sand under the sea was still holding the ship in one place. The back of the ship was high out of the water, and I was very thankful for this because all the ship's food was there. I was very hungry so I began to eat something at once. Then I decided to take some of it back to the shore with me. But how could I get it there?

I looked around the ship, and after a few minutes, I found some long pieces of wood. I tied them together with rope. Then I got the things that I wanted from the ship. There was a big box of food—rice, and salted meat, and hard ship's bread. I also took many strong knives and other tools, the ship's sails and ropes, paper, pens, books, and seven guns. Now I needed a little sail from the ship, and then I was ready. Slowly and carefully, I went back to the shore. It was difficult to stop my things from falling into the sea, but in the end I got everything on to the shore.

Now I needed somewhere to keep my things.

There were some hills around me, so I decided to build myself a little house on one of them. I walked to the top of the highest hill and looked down, I was very unhappy, because I saw then that I was on an island. There were two smaller islands a few miles away, and after that, only the sea. Just the sea, for mile after mile after mile.

After a time, I found a little cave in the side of a hill. In front of it, there was a good place to make a home. So, I used the ship's sails, rope, and pieces of wood, and after a lot of hard work I had a very fine tent. The cave at the back of my tent was a good place to keep my food, and so I called it my 'kitchen' . That night, I went to sleep in my new home.

The next day I thought about the possible dangers on the island .Were there wild animals, and perhaps wild people too, on my island? I didn't know, but I was very afraid. So I decided to build a very strong fence. I cut down young trees and put them in the ground, in a half circle around the front of my tent. I used many of the ship's ropes too, and in the end my fence was as strong as a stone wall. Nobody could get over it, through it, or round it.

Making tents and building fences is hard work. I needed many tools to help me. So I decided to go back to the ship again, and get some more things.

I went back twelve times, but soon after my twelfth visit there was another terrible storm. The next morning, when I looked out to sea, there was no ship.

When I saw that, I was very unhappy. 'Why am I alive, and why are all my friends dead?' I asked myself. 'What will happen to me now, alone on this island without friends? How can I ever escape from it?'

Then I told myself that I was lucky—lucky to be alive, lucky to have food and tools, lucky to be young and strong. But I knew that my island was somewhere off the coast of South America. Ships did not often come down this coast, and I said to myself, 'I'm going to be on this island for a long time.' So, on a long piece of wood, I cut these words:

I CAME HERE ON 30TH SEPTEMBER 1659

After that, I decided to make a cut for each day.

rope n. very thick, strong string. 绳；索。

salt v. to add salt to; put salt on. 加盐。

cave n. a deep natural hollow place either underground, or in the side of a hill. 洞；穴；岩洞。

tent n. a movable shelter made of cloth supported by poles and ropes. 帐篷。

fence n. a wall made of wood or wire, dividing two areas of land. 篱笆；栅栏。

cut n. the result of cutting. 刻痕。





4 　孤岛上的新生活


当白天到来时，大海又恢复了平静。我寻找我们的船，令我惊诧的是它依然在那儿并且没有破碎。“我想我能够游到那儿。”我自言自语。于是，我朝大海里走去，不一会儿，我就靠近了船绕着它游。只是，我怎样才可以上去呢？最后，我从船舷一侧的一个洞里钻了进去，但却很不容易。

船里积了很多水，但海底的沙使船固定在了一个地方。船的尾部翘出了水面，这让我非常庆幸，因为船上全部的食物都储在那儿。我已经很饿了，所以我马上吃起来。之后我决定带一些食物回到岸上。可是我又该怎么做呢？

我察看了这只船的四周，几分钟后，我找到了几块长条的木板。我用绳子把它们紧扎在一起，然后向上搬我想从船上带走的东西。那儿有一大箱食物——米、咸肉和硬面包。我还拿了很多坚固的刀及其他工具，船帆、绳子、纸、钢笔、书及7支枪。现在我需要在船上找一个小帆，不一会儿，我就准备好了。我慢慢地、小心翼翼地向岸边划，要使我的东西不掉到海里是挺困难的，但最终我把每一件东西都弄上了岸。

现在，我需要地方来存放我的东西。

在我的周围有些小山丘，于是我决定在其中的一个小山上给自己建一座小屋。我走到最高的小山的山顶往下看，非常沮丧，因为那时我才明白我是在一个孤岛上。几英里外有两个更小的岛，更远的地方，只剩下了大海，延绵数英里的大海。

过了不久，我在小山的一侧找到了一个小洞穴。在它前面，是一个安家的好地方。于是，我用那些船帆、绳子及木板，经过一番很艰苦的劳作后，为自己搭建了一个非常好的帐篷。帐篷后面的洞穴是存放食物的好地方，所以我称之为我的“厨房”。那天晚上，我便在我的新家度过了。

第二天，我仔细设想了岛上可能存在的危险。在我的岛上，会不会有野兽，也许还会存在野人？虽然我不知道，但却很害怕。于是我决定建一个坚固的栅栏。我砍倒了一些小树，插到地上，并在我的帐篷前围成个半圆。我还用上了很多船上的绳子，最后我的栅栏就像一堵坚固的石墙。没有人可以翻进来、钻进来或者绕过来。

制作帐篷和建造栅栏篱笆是一项艰苦的工作。我需要很多工具的帮助。所以，我打算再次回到船上，去拿更多的东西。

我回去了12次，但就在我第12次回来之后不久又来了一场暴风雨。第二天一早我向大海眺望时，船不见了。

目睹这一切，我非常悲伤。“为什么我活着，而我所有的朋友们却都死了？”我问自己，“现在对于我又会有什么事情发生呢？没有朋友，独自生活在岛上，我怎么才能逃离这儿呢？”

但随即我告诉自己我是幸运的——能幸运地活下来，幸运地获得食物、工具，幸运自己还年轻力壮。但我知道我的小岛在远离南美海岸的某个地方。船只不太经常沿着这个海岸航行，我对自己说：“我会在这个岛上待很长时间。”于是，在一长条木牌上，我刻下了这些话：

我于1659年9月30日来到此岛

以后，我决定每天都刻上一个记号。





5Learning to live alone


Learning to live alone

I still needed a lot of things. 'Well,' I said, 'I'm going to have to make them.' So, every day, I worked.

First of all, I wanted to make my cave bigger. I carried out stone from the cave, and after many days' hard work I had a large cave in the side of the hill. Then I needed a table and a chair, and that was my next job. I had to work on them for a long time. I also wanted to make places to put all my food, and all my tools and guns. But every time I wanted a piece of wood, I had to cut down a tree. It was long, slow, difficult work, and during the next months I learnt to be very clever with my tools. There was no hurry. I had all the time in the world.

I also went out every day, and I always had my gun with me. Sometimes I killed a wild animal, and then I had meat to eat.

But when it got dark, I had to go to bed because I had no light. I couldn't read or write because I couldn't see. For a long time, I didn't know what to do. But in the end, I learnt how to use the fat of dead animals to make a light.

The weather on my island was usually very hot, and there were often storms and heavy rain. The next June, it rained all the time, and I couldn't go out very often. I was also ill for some weeks, but slowly, I got better. When I was stronger, I began to go out again. The first time I killed a wild animal, and the second time I caught a big turtle.

I was on the island for ten months before I visited other parts of it. During those months I worked hard on my cave and my house and my fence. Now I was ready to find out more about the rest of the island.

First, I walked along the side of a little river. There, I found open ground without trees. Later, I came to more trees with many different fruits. I decided to take a lot of the fruit, and to put it to dry in the sun for a time. Then I could keep it for many months.

That night I went to sleep in a tree for the second time, and the next day I went on with my journey. Soon I came to an opening in the hills. In front of me, everything was green, and there were flowers everywhere. There were also a lot of different birds and animals. I saw that my house was on the worst side of the island. But I didn't want to move from there. It was my home now. I stayed away for three days, and then I came home. But I often went back to the other, greener side of the island.

And so my life went on. Every month I learnt to do or to make something new. But I had troubles and accidents too. Once there was a terrible storm with very heavy rain. The roof of my cave fell in, and nearly killed me! I had to build it up again with many pieces of wood.

I had a lot of food now. I cooked it over a fire or dried it in the sun. So I always had meat during the rainy months when I could not go out with a gun. I learnt to make pots to keep my food in. But I wanted very much to make a harder, stronger pot—a pot that would not break in a fire. I tried many times, but I could not do it. Then one day I was lucky. I made some new pots and put them in a very hot fire. They changed colour, but did not break. I left them there for many hours, and when they were cold again, I found that they were hard and strong. That night I was very happy. I had hot water for the first time on the island.

By then, I also had my own bread. That was luck, too. One day I found a little bag. We used it on the ship, to keep the chickens' food in. There was still some of the food in the bag, and I dropped some of it onto the ground. A month later I saw something bright green there, and after six months I had a very small field of corn. I was very excited. Perhaps now I could make my own bread!

It was easy to say, but not so easy to do. It is a lot of work to make bread from corn. Many people eat bread, but how many people can take corn from a field and make bread out of it without help? I had to learn and to make many new things, and it was a year before I cooked and ate my first bread.

During all this time I never stopped thinking about escape. When I travelled across to the other side of the island, I could see the other islands, and I said to myself, 'Perhaps I can get there with a boat. Perhaps I can get back to England one day.'

So I decided to make myself a boat. I cut down a big tree, and then began to make a long hole in it. It was hard work, but about six months later, I had a very fine canoe. Next, I had to get it down to the sea. How stupid I was! Why didn't I think before I began work? Of course, the canoe was too heavy. I couldn't move it! I pulled and pushed and tried everything, but it didn't move. I was very unhappy for a long time after that.

That happened in my fourth year on the island. In my sixth year I did make myself a smaller canoe, but I did not try to escape in it. The boat was too small for a long journey, and I did not want to die at sea. The island was my home now, not my prison, and I was just happy to be alive. A year or two later, I made myself a second canoe on the other side of the island. I also built myself a second house there, and so I had two homes.

My life was still busy from morning to night. There were always things to do or to make. I learnt to make new clothes for myself from the skins of dead animals. They looked very strange, it is true, but they kept me dry in the rain.

I kept food and tools at both my houses, and also wild goats. There were many goats on the island, and I made fields with high fences to keep them in. They learnt to take food from me, and soon I had goat's milk to drink every day. I also worked hard in my cornfields. And so many years went by.

clever adj. quick, skillful. 熟练的。

fat n. the material under the skins of animals and human beings which helps to keep them warm. （动物与人体的）脂肪。

turtle n. an animal that lives esp. in water, with a soft body covered by a hard horny shell. 海龟；甲龟。

fruit n. the part of a tree or bush that contains seeds, esp. considered as food. 水果；果类。

rainy adj. having a lot of rain. 多雨的。

pot n. a round vessel of baked clay. 罐子。

corn n. any of various types of grain plants. 谷物。

canoe n. a long light narrow boat. 小划子；独木舟。

skin n. the natural outer covering of an animal or human body, from which hair may grow. 皮；皮肤。

goat n. a four-legged animal related to the sheep, which has horns. 山羊。





5 　学会独自生活


我仍需要很多东西。“好吧，”我说，“我以后不得不自己做了。”于是，我每天都工作着。

首先，我把我的山洞扩大。我从洞里运出石头，经过许多天的艰苦劳动，我在小山的一侧开了个大的山洞。然后，我需要一张桌子和一把椅子，这便是我接下来的工作。为此，我不得不长时间地干。我还想要一些地方存放我的食物，以及我全部的工具和枪支。每一次我需要一块木板时都不得不砍倒一棵树。这是一项漫长艰苦的工作，在随后的几个月里我学会熟练地使用工具了。无须焦急，我拥有整个世界的全部时间。

我依然每天出去，而且总是随身带枪。有时我杀死一只野兽，然后，就可以有肉吃了。

但每到天黑，因为没有灯，我就只好睡觉。由于看不见我不能读书也没法写字，好长一段时间我不知道该怎么做。但最终我学会了如何使用死兽的脂肪来点灯。

岛上的天气通常很热，经常有暴风雨。第二年的六月一直在下雨，我不能经常外出。我也病了几个星期，但慢慢地我好转了。当我强壮起来时，我又开始外出。第一次我杀了一只野兽，第二回我捕获了一只大海龟。

当我去参观岛的其他地方时，我在岛上已有10个月了，在这期间，我为我的洞穴、房子和篱笆忙活，现在我可以进一步了解该岛其他地方的情况了。

首先，我沿着一条小河岸前行。在那，我发现一片没有树木的开阔地。随后，我到达了一片结着各种水果的树林。我决定多摘些果子把它们在太阳下放一阵晒干，这样就可以保存很多个月了。

那个晚上，我第二次睡在了树上，第二天又继续我的旅行。不久，我到了这个小山的开阔地。在我面前，一片郁郁葱葱，鲜花遍野。还有很多各种各样的鸟类和动物。我明白了我的房子是在这个岛的最糟的一侧但我并不打算从那儿移走，那是我的家。我在外待了三天，然后回了家。但我经常回到岛上这边绿色的一侧。

我的生活继续着。每个月我都学会做点新的东西。但也有麻烦和灾祸。一次一场夹着大雨的风暴来临，我的山洞的顶层塌了下来，差点要了我的命！我不得不用很多木头把它重新建好。

现在，我有了很多食物。我把它们架在火上烤或搁在太阳下晒干。因此，即使在雨季我不能带枪外出时也总有肉吃了。我学会做陶罐存放我的食物。但我非常想要做一个更坚固的罐子——一个放在火里不会破裂的罐子。我试了很多次，可我没有成功。但有一天我的运气来了。我做了几个新的罐子把它们搁在旺火里。它们变了颜色但却没有碎裂。我把它们放在那儿好几个小时，当它们再次冷却下来时，我发现它们既坚硬又牢固。那个晚上，我非常高兴。在这岛上我第一次喝到了热水。

从那时起，我也有了自己的面包。这也是一件幸运的事。一天我找到一只小袋子。在船上时我们用它来存放小鸡的饲料。在那袋子里还一直放着些食物，我把它们全倒在了地上。一个月后，我看见一些亮绿的幼苗，六个月后我便有了一块非常小的庄稼地。我很激动。或许现在我可以做自己的面包了。

这些事说起来容易做起来却很困难。从谷物到面包需要很多工作。很多人吃面包，但又有多少人可以无须帮助从地里收割谷物又做成面包呢？我不得不学着去做而且去做很多新的东西，在我烧出并吃到我做的第一个面包时又一年过去了。

在这期间，我从来没有停止设法逃离小岛。当我探索小岛的另外一侧时，我能看到其他的小岛，我对自己说：“或许我用一只小船可以到达那儿。也许，有一天我便可以回到英格兰了。”

于是，我决定造自己的小船。我砍倒了一棵大树，然后开始掏成一个长条形洞。这是很苦的工作，但六个月后，我就有了一只很好的独木舟。接下去，我必须让它下水。我是多么地愚蠢啊！为什么开始工作前却没想到呢？毫无疑问，这只独木舟太重了。我移不动它！我又拉又推用尽一切方法，但它却纹丝不动。这以后很长一段日子我都不开心。

造船是发生在我到岛上之后的第四个年头。在我的第六年里我又造了一只更小的船，但我没有试图用它来逃离小岛。要想长途航行，这船太小了，我可不想死在海上。现在这岛便是我的家并非我的监狱，我很高兴我还活着。一年或两年后，我在岛的另一侧又造了一只独木舟。我还在那儿建了第二座房子，所以我有了两个家。

我的生活总是从早忙到晚，总是有很多事情要做。我学会用兽皮给自己做新衣服，虽然看起来挺古怪，这是事实。但在雨季它能使我不被淋湿。

我在我的两所房子里都储放了食物和工具，也都养了野山羊。在这个岛上有很多野山羊，我用高栅栏圈了块地把它们围在里面。它们学会了从我这儿找食物，于是不久，我就每天有羊奶喝了。我同时还在我的地里辛苦耕种。于是，很多年就这样过去了。





6A footprint


A footprint

Then, one year, something strange and terrible happened. I often walked along the shore, and one day I saw something in the sand. I went over to look at it more carefully, and stopped in sudden surprise.

It was a footprint—the footprint of a man!

Who could this be? Afraid, I looked around me. I listened. I waited. Nothing. I was more and more afraid. Perhaps this man was one of those wild people who killed and ate other men! I looked everywhere, but there was nobody, and no other footprint. I turned and hurried home. 'There's someone on my island, 'I said to myself. 'Perhaps he knows about me... Perhaps he's watching me now from behind a tree... Perhaps he wants to kill me.'

That night I couldn't sleep. The next day I got all my guns ready and I put more wood and young trees around my house. Nobody could see me now. But, after fifteen years alone on the island, I was afraid, and I did not leave my cave for three days.

In the end, I had to go out to milk my goats. But for two years I was afraid. I stayed near my home and I never used my guns because I didn't want to make a noise. I could not forget the footprint, but I saw and heard nothing more, and slowly I began to feel happier.

One day, a year later, I was over on the west side of the island. From there I could see the other islands, and I could also see a boat, far out to sea. 'If you have a boat,' I thought, 'it's easy to sail across to this island. Perhaps that explains the footprint—it was a visitor from one of the other islands.'

I began to move more freely around the island again, and built myself a third house. It was a very secret place in a cave. 'No wild man will ever find that,' I said to myself.

Then one year something happened which I can never forget. I was again on the west side of the island and was walking along the shore. Suddenly, I saw something which made me feel ill. There were heads, arms, feet, and other pieces of men's bodies everywhere. For a minute, I couldn't think, and then I understood. Sometimes there were fights between the wild men on the other islands. Then they came here to my island with their prisoners, to kill them, cook them, and eat them. Slowly, I went home, but I was very angry. How could men do this?

For many months I watched carefully for the smoke from fires, but I didn't see anything. Somehow the wild men came and went, and I never saw them. I was angry and afraid. I wanted to shoot them all, but there were many of them and only one of me. 'Perhaps I can shoot two or three,' I said to myself, 'but then they will kill and eat me.'

Then, one morning in my twenty-third year on the island, I was out in my fields and I saw the smoke from a fire. Quickly, I went up the hill to watch.

There were nine men around the fire, and they were cooking their terrible food. Then these wild men danced round the fire, singing and shouting. This went on for about two hours, and then they got into their boats and sailed away. I went down to the shore and saw the blood of the dead men on the sand. 'The next time they come, I'm going to kill them,' I said angrily.

foot print n. a foot-shaped mark made by pressing a foot onto a surface. 脚印。

explain v. show, tell, etc. what something means. 解释；说明。

secret adj. that other people do not know. 秘密的；暗藏的。





6 　一个脚印


有一年，发生了一件古怪而且可怕的事情。我经常沿着海岸走，一天我看见沙滩上有些东西。我跑过去想瞧个仔细，但却在震惊中停了下来。

那是一个脚印——一个人的脚印！

这是谁的呢？我害怕极了，环顾四周，我倾听着、等候着，却什么也没有，我越来越怕。也许，这是一个杀死并吃掉其他人的野人！我到处看，但一个人也没有，也没有别的脚印。我转过身匆忙赶回家。“岛上有人，”我自言自语，“也许他知道我……也许他现在正从树后面观察我……也许他想杀了我。”

那一夜我不能入睡。第二天我把所有的枪备好并在房子的周围堆上更多的木头和小树。现在没有人能够看见我。可是，岛上独自生活了十五年后，我还是害怕，以至于一连三天没离开过我的山洞。

最终，我还是不得不出去给我的山羊挤奶，但两年里我一直提心吊胆。我待在房子的附近，从来不使用我的枪因为我不想弄出声音。我忘不掉那个脚印，但由于再也没有听到其他什么，渐渐地，我的感觉开始好起来。

一年以后的一天，我来到小岛的西侧，从那儿我能看到其他岛和远处大海中的船。“如果有一只船，”我想，“穿过海面来到这个岛是挺容易，也许，这样可以解释这脚印——是一个来自其他岛的来访者。”

我又开始在岛上自由自在地走动并给自己建了第三所房子。它是在一个山洞里非常隐蔽的地方。“没有野人能够找到它。”我对自己说。

然而有一年，发生了一件事，令我永远不能忘记。我又一次在岛的西侧沿着海岸散步。突然，我瞧见令我作呕的东西，那儿到处是人头、手臂、脚和一些人体其他部位的碎块。那一刻，我简直无法思考，随即，我就明白了。有时其他岛上的野人之间会发生战争，然后他们带着他们的俘虏来到了我的岛上，杀了俘虏，接着烹了吃掉。慢慢地，我走回家中，可我很愤怒，人怎么能够做这样的事？

几个月来，我仔细观察火堆升起的烟，但我什么也没看见。究竟野人如何来来去去我却从来没有发现过。我又愤怒又害怕。我想把他们全都杀了，但他们人多而我就一个人。“也许，我可以杀死两、三个，”我自言自语，“可是，然后他们却会杀了我并把我吃掉。”

此后，正是我在岛上的第23个年头的一个早上，我正在我的地里劳作，看见一堆火上升起的烟，飞快地，我爬上山去观察。

有9个人围绕着火堆，正在烤着可怕的食物。接着那些野人围绕着火堆跳起了舞，唱着叫着。这样整整持续了两个小时，然后他们上了小船离开了。我走到海滩上，目睹了沙滩上死人的淋漓鲜血。“下次他们来，我一定会杀了他们，”我愤怒地说。





7Man Friday


Man Friday

For two years I never went anywhere without my gun. I felt lonely and afraid, and had many sleepless nights. One night there was a very bad storm, and I thought I heard the sound of guns out at sea. The next morning I looked out, and saw a ship. It was lying on its side not far from the shore. Quickly, I put my little boat in the water and sailed out to it.

There were two dead men on the ship, but no one alive. The bodies of the other sailors were lost in the sea. I took some clothes and tools, and also a box of Spanish gold and silver money. I was a rich man now, but what use was money to me? I could not buy anything with it.

I wanted people, a friend, somebody to talk to ... somebody who could help me escape from my island. One morning I woke up and made a plan. 'I'll try to catch one of the prisoners of the wild men,' I said to myself. 'He'll be happy to be alive and perhaps he'll help me to escape.' I watched day and night, but for a year and a half there were no boats.

Then one day five boats came. There were about thirty men and they had two prisoners. They made their fire on the sand and danced round it. Then they killed one of the prisoners and began to cook their terrible meal. The second prisoner waited under the trees, with two men to watch him. Suddenly, the prisoner turned and ran. The two men ran after him, but the other wild men were busy round the fire and did not see what was happening.

The prisoner ran like a wild goat, and soon I saw that he was coming near the bottom of my hill. As fast as I could, I ran down the hill and jumped out of the trees between the prisoner and the two wild men. I hit the first man with the wooden end of my gun and he fell down, but I had to shoot the second man. The poor prisoner did not move. He was afraid of the noise of my gun.

I called to him and tried to show him that I was friendly. Slowly, he moved nearer to me, but just then the first wild man began to get up from the ground. Then the prisoner spoke and I understood that he wanted my sword. How happy I was to hear words again! I gave him my sword, and at once he cut off the head of his enemy.

Hurriedly, we hid the dead bodies under some leaves, and then left quickly. I took my prisoner to my secret cave on the other side of the island and gave him food and drink. After that, he went to sleep.

He was a fine young man, about twenty-five years old, tall and well-built, with a kind face and a nice smile. He had a brown skin, black hair, bright eyes and strong white teeth. I decided to give him the name of 'Man Friday', because I first saw him on a Friday.

When he woke up in the morning, he ran out to me. I was milking my goats in the field, and he got down on the ground and put his head near my foot. I understood that he was thanking me, and I tried to show him that I was his friend.

I began to teach him to speak English, and soon he could say his name, 'Master', and 'Yes' and 'No' . How good it was to hear a man, s voice again!

Later that day we went back to my first house. We went carefully along the beach, but there were no boats and no wild men. Just blood and bones all over the sand. I felt ill, but Friday wanted to eat the pieces of men's bodies which were still on the ground. I showed him that this was terrible for me, and he understood.

When we got to my house, I gave Man Friday some trousers, and I made him a coat and a hat. He liked his new clothes very much. Then I made him a little tent to sleep in, but for a few weeks I always took my gun to bed with me. Perhaps Friday was still a wild man and would try to kill me in the night. At first, Friday was very afraid of my gun. Sometimes he talked to it, and asked it not to kill him.

Friday was a quick learner and his English got better day by day. He helped me with the goats and with the work in the cornfields, and soon we were good friends. I enjoyed teaching him and, most of all, having a friend to talk to. This was the happiest of all my years on the island.

Friday and I lived together happily for three years. I told him the story of my adventures and about life in England, and he told me about his country and his people. One day we were at the top of the highest hill on the island, and we were looking out to sea. It was a very clear day and we could see a long way. Suddenly, Friday began to jump up and down, very excited.

'What's the matter?' I said.

'Look, Master, look!' Friday cried. 'I can see my country. Look over there!'

I looked, and there to the north-west, between the sea and the sky, was a long thin piece of land. I learnt later that it was the island of Trinidad, and that my island was in the mouth of the River Orinoco on the north coast of South America.

I began to think again about escape. Perhaps Friday wanted to go home too. Perhaps together we could get to his country. But what then? Would Friday still be my friend, or would his people kill me and eat me?

I took Friday to the other side of the island and showed him my big canoe. It still lay under the trees. It was very old now, and there were holes in the wood.

'Could a boat like this sail to your country, Friday?' I asked him.

'Oh yes,' he answered. 'A boat like this can carry a lot of food and drink.'

'Then we'll make another canoe like it, and you can go home in it,' I said.

But Friday looked very unhappy. 'Why are you angry with me?' he asked. 'What have I done? Why do you want to send me home?'

'But I thought you wanted to go home,' I said.

'Yes. But you must come with me. Kill me if you want, but don't send me away from you!'

Then I saw that Friday was a true friend, and so I agreed to go with him. We began work on the canoe at once. Friday chose the tree himself—he understood wood better than I did—and we cut it down. We worked hard and in a month the boat was finished. Two weeks later it was in the sea, and we began to get ready for our long journey.

sleepless adj. not able to sleep. 不眠的。

hit v. knock someone or something hard. 打；打击。

sword n. very long，sharp knife for fighting. 剑；刀。

hide v. put something in asecret place. 隐藏；把……藏起来。

voice n. sound that you make when you speak or sing. 说话声；嗓子。

mouth n. end of a river, where it comes to the sea. 河口。

send v. make someone go somewhere. 打发 ；派遣。

true adj. fainthful; real. 忠诚的。





7 　星期五


两年来，我无论去哪都带着枪。我感到孤独和害怕，许多晚上无法入睡。一个晚上来了一场非常厉害的风暴。我想我听到了海上的枪声。第二天早晨我往外望去，看到一只轮船斜躺在离海岸不远的海面上。我迅速地把我的小船拖下水并朝大船驶去。

船上有两个死人，但没有人活着，其他水手的尸体都消失在海上。我带走一些衣服和工具，还有一箱西班牙金币和银币，现在我成了一个富翁，但这些钱对我有什么用呢？我用它们什么也买不到。

我渴望人类，一个朋友，一个可以谈话的人……可以帮助我逃离孤岛的人。有天早上我醒来做了个计划。“我要试着搭救一个野人的俘虏，”我自言自语，“他将因为活着而高兴，可能他会帮助我逃跑。”我日夜观望着，但一年半过去了，却再也没见到船只出现。

有一天，海上来了五只船，大约有30个人和两个俘虏。他们在沙滩上生火并围着火跳舞，然后他们杀了一个俘虏并开始烤可怕的食物。另一个俘虏在树下等候，留有两个人看守。突然，俘虏转身就跑，那两个人在后面追赶，但其余的野人围着火忙着，并没有看见发生的事。

那俘虏像一只野山羊在奔跑，不一会儿我看到他已跑到我的山脚下。我尽快地跑下山去，在俘虏和另两个野人之间的树丛里跳出来。我用木制的枪柄击倒第一个野人，但我却不得不开枪打死第二个。可怜的俘虏没有动，他被枪声吓呆了。

我大声招呼他，努力向他表明我是友好的。他慢慢地向我靠近，但这时第一个野人开始从地上爬起来。然后这俘虏说话了，我明白他需要我的刀。能够听到人的语言我是多么高兴啊！我给他我的刀，他立刻砍掉了敌人的脑袋。

我们急忙把尸体藏到落叶下面，然后迅速离开。我把俘虏带到岛的另一面我隐蔽的洞穴，并给他食物和水，不久，他睡着了。

他是一个可爱的年轻人，大约25岁，身材高大健壮，憨厚的脸上带着善意的微笑。他生着褐色皮肤、黑头发、明亮的眼睛和坚固的白牙齿。我决定叫他“仆人星期五”，因为我是在星期五第一次见到他的。

他早上醒来，跑到我的身边。我正在田里挤羊奶，他跪在地上把头贴在我的脚边。我明白他在感谢我，我努力向他表明我是他的朋友。

我开始教他说英语，不久，他能够说他的名字、“主人”及“是”与“不是”。重新听到人的声音是多么美妙啊！

那天傍晚，我们回到我第一次建造的房子，我们沿着海滨小心地走着，但那儿没有船和野人，只有血迹和尸骨散落在沙滩上，我感到恶心，但星期五想吃地上的尸体碎块，我向他表示这对我来说很可怕，他明白了。

当我们回到房子里，我给了星期五几条裤子，而且给他做了件外套和一顶帽子，他非常喜欢他的新衣服。然后我给他搭了一座小帐篷睡觉，但一连几个星期我总是带着枪睡觉，或许因为星期五还是一个野人，也许他会在夜里杀了我。开始，星期五害怕我的枪，有时他对枪说话，叫枪不要杀死他。

星期五学得很快，他的英语讲得一天比一天好。他帮我养山羊和在田地里干活，不久我们成了好朋友。我乐于教他，最重要的是有一个朋友可以谈话，这是我在岛上最快乐的一段时光。

我和星期五一起幸福地生活了三年，我告诉他我的冒险经历和在英国的生活，他告诉我有关他的国家及人民。一天，我们站在岛上最高的山顶眺望大海，天气十分晴朗，我们可以看得很远。突然，星期五跳上跳下，非常兴奋。

“发生了什么事？”我说。

“看，主人，看哪！”星期五叫起来。“我能看见我的国家。看，就在那儿。”

我看到从这儿往西北，在海天之间，有一片狭长的土地。我后来知道这是特立尼达岛，而我的岛在南美洲北部海岸的奥里诺科河的河口。

我又重新开始考虑逃离。也许星期五也想回家，或许我们能一起回到他的国家。但那会怎样呢？星期五仍会是我的朋友吗？他的伙伴会杀死并吃掉我吗？

我把星期五带到岛的另一边，向他展示我的庞大的独木舟。它仍躺在树下。现在它已经很旧了，木头上出现了一些洞。

“星期五，像这样的船能驶到你的国家吗？”我问他。

“哦，能，”他回答说。“像这样的船能装运许多食物和水。”

“那么我们将制造差不多的另一只独木舟，你就可以乘着它回家了。”我说。

但星期五看起来很不开心。“你为什么生我的气呢？”他问，“我做了什么？为什么你想送我回家？”

“但我以为你想回家。”我说道。

“是的。但你一定要和我一起去。假如你想杀我也可以，但不要把我送走！”

此后我发现星期五是一个真诚的朋友，因此我同意和他一起走。我们马上开始建造独木舟。星期五亲自挑选木头——他比我更懂得木材的好坏——我们砍倒树木，辛苦地工作，一个月就把船造好了。两个星期后船下水了，我们开始为长途旅行作准备。





8Escape from the island


Escape from the island

I was now in my twenty-seventh year on the island, and I did not want to be there for another year. We worked hard to get the corn in, and to make a lot of bread. We had dried fruit and salted meat, and big pots to keep water in. One evening Friday went out to look for a turtle for meat and eggs. But in less than an hour he was back, and he looked very afraid.

'Master! Master!' he cried. 'There's a great ship near the island, and men are coming to the shore in a boat!'

I jumped up and ran with him down to the shore. To my great surprise, I saw that it was an English ship! But why was it here? English ships never came this way. Perhaps they were pirates! 'Don't let them see you, Friday!' I called. 'We'll hide in the trees and watch.'

There were eleven men in the boat, but three of them were prisoners. Their arms were tied with rope, but their legs were free and they could walk. The other sailors pushed the three prisoners up the beach, laughing and shouting and hitting them. Then some of them sat down on the sand and began to drink. Others walked away to look at the island, and two men stayed to watch the boat. The three prisoners walked slowly along the beach and sat down under a tree, not far from us. They looked very unhappy.

Very quietly, I came up behind them through the trees, and called out to them in English.

'Don't be afraid,'I said. 'I'm an Englishman. Perhaps I can help you.'

The three men turned and looked at me. They did not answer at once; they were too surprised. Perhaps they thought I was a wild man myself, in my strange home—made clothes of animals' skins, and with my long hair and beard. Then the oldest man spoke.

'I am the captain of that ship,' he said, 'and these two men are my first and second officers. Last night there was a mutiny, and the seamen took the ship from me. Now they're going to leave the three of us here, to die on this island.'

'Do these mutineers have guns?'

'Only two,' he answered, 'and they've left those on the boat.'

'All right,' I said. 'We'll fight them, but if we get your ship back for you, you must take me back to England.'

The captain agreed immediately and thanked me very warmly for my help. Friday ran back to my house to get all the guns, and the captain and I made a plan.

The first part was easy because the seamen were not ready for a fight. We shot the two men at the boat, and the captain shot another man. This man, Tom Smith, was the worst of them all and he began the mutiny on the ship. Then the captain talked to the other five men, and they agreed to help him. They did not really want to be mutineers, but they were afraid of Tom Smith.

'Now,' I said to the captain, 'we must get back your ship. How many men are on it?'

'Twenty-six,' the captain replied, 'and they will fight hard because they won't want to go home. It is death for all mutineers in England. But not all the men are bad. I'm sure that some of them will help me.'

Just then we saw another boat, which was coming from the ship to the shore. There were ten men in it, and they all had guns. We ran into the trees and waited.

It was a long hard fight, but by now it was dark and this helped us very much. We ran here and there in the trees, calling and shouting. The seamen could not see us and did not know how many men they were fighting. In the end the first officer shouted to them:

'Put down your guns and stop fighting! The captain has fifty island people to help him. We can kill you all!'

So the seamen stopped fighting and we took their guns. Three of the men agreed to come back to the captain, and we put the others in my cave. Friday and I stayed to watch the prisoners, while the captain and his men went back to fight for the ship.

All night we listened to the sound of guns and shouting, but in the morning, when the sun came up, the captain was master of his ship again. I went down to the shore to meet him.

'My dear friend,' he cried, 'There's your ship! I'll take you to the ends of the world in it!'

I put my arms round him, and we laughed and cried together. How happy I was to leave the island!

My good friend Friday came with me, of course, but we left the mutineers on the island. We decided not to kill them ; they could begin a new life on the island. I showed them my three houses, my cornfields and my goats, and all my tools. Their life would be easy because of all my hard work for so many years.

And so, on the nineteenth of December 1686—after twenty-seven years, two months and nineteen days—I said goodbye to my island and sailed home to England.

shout v. cry words out loudly and strongly. 呼喊；叫喊。

mutiny n. time when soldies or sailors attack their own leaders and officers. 兵变。mutineer 反叛者；叛变者。

reply v. answer. 回答；答复。

decide v. come to an idea or plan after thinking. 决定。





8 　逃离孤岛


现在我在这岛上已经待了27年，我不愿再待下去了。我们勤劳地工作，收割谷物，制成许多面包。我们准备了干果、咸肉和装水的大罐子。一天傍晚，星期五为了寻找肉和蛋去抓海龟。但不到一个钟头他就回来了。他看起来非常害怕。

“主人！主人！”他叫喊着，“在岛的附近有一只大船，他们坐着一条小船上岸来了！”

我跳起来跟他一起下山朝岸边跑。令我非常惊奇的是，我看到那是一艘英国船！但为什么会在这儿？英国船只从不朝这个方向来。或许他们是海盗！“别让他们看见你，星期五！”我叫到。“我们躲到树后瞧着。”

船上有11个人，但其中3个是俘虏。他们的手臂用绳子捆着，但他们的脚是自由的，可以走路。其他水手把这3个俘虏押到海滩上，笑着，叫着并踢他们。一些人坐在沙滩上开始喝酒。其他人走开去观察小岛，留下两个人看守小船。3个俘虏沿着海滩走得很慢，在离我们不远的树下坐了下来。他们显得非常沮丧。

我悄悄地穿过树丛走到他们后面，用英语招呼他们。

“不要害怕，”我说。“我是英国人。或许我能帮助你们。”

这3个人转过身来看着我。他们没有马上回答；他们很惊讶。可能会认为我这个穿着用动物皮毛自制的古怪衣服，长长的头发和胡须的人是个野人。稍后，最年长的人说话了。

“我是船长，”他说，“这两个是我的大副和二副。昨晚发生了一场叛乱，水手夺走了我的船。现在他们将把我们3人丢在这儿，让我们死在岛上。”

“这些反叛者有枪吗？”

“只有两支枪，”他回答，“他们把枪留在小船上了。”

“好的，”我说，“我们来打他们，但是如果我们为你夺回了船，你们必须带我回英国去。”

船长立即同意并热情地感谢我的帮助。星期五跑回房子取来所有的枪，船长和我制定了一个计划。

第一步还是容易的，因为水手没有作战的准备。我们开枪打死了船上的两个人，船长击毙了另一个。这个叫汤姆·史密斯的，是其中最坏的一个。他发动了船上的这场叛乱。然后船长和其他五个人谈话，他们答应帮助船长。他们并非真的想成为反叛者，只是畏惧汤姆·史密斯。

“现在，”我对船长说，“我们必须回到你的船上。船上有多少人？”

“26个，”船长回答，“他们会顽强抵抗，因为他们不想回家。在英国所有的反叛者都会处以死刑。但并非所有的人都是坏人，我相信有一些人会帮助我的。”

这时我们看见另一只小船，正离开大船向岸边驶来。船上有10个人，他们都带了枪。我们跑进树丛等着。

这是一场艰苦的持久战，但此刻天已黑了，这对我们很有利。我们在树丛里到处跑，叫喊着。水手们着不见我们，也不知道和他们打仗的有多少人。最后，大副朝他们喊：

“放下武器。停止战斗！船长得到了50名岛上居民的帮助，我们能把你们全部消灭！”

因此水手们停止了作战，我们缴了他们的枪。其中3个人同意回到船长这边，我们把其余的人送进我的山洞里。我和星期五留下看守俘虏，而船长和他的手下回去为夺船而战斗。

整夜我们听见枪声及叫喊声，但到了早晨，当太阳升起时，船长又成了大船的主人。我下山到海岸边去迎接他。

“我亲爱的朋友，”他喊道。“那是你的船！我会用它把你载到世界的每个角落！”

我拥抱他，我们一起又笑又叫。离开这个小岛我是多么高兴啊！

我的好朋友星期五当然跟随着我，但我们把那些叛乱者留在了岛上。我们决定不杀他们；他们能够在岛上开始一种新的生活。我给他们看了我的三间房子，我的庄稼地和我的山羊以及所有的工具。由于我多年的艰苦劳动他们的生活会轻松得多。

于是，在1686年12月19日——经过了27年2个月19天——我告别了我的小岛乘船返回了英国。





9Home in England


Home in England

When I came back to England, I felt like a stranger in the country. Many things were different, and not many people remembered me. I went home to York, but my father and mother were dead, and also my two brothers. I did find the two sons of one of my brothers. They were happy to learn that I was alive, and I was pleased to find some family.

After some months I decided to go down to Lisbon in Portugal. I had friends there who could help me to sell my land in Brazil, and I needed the money. Friday came with me. He was always a good and true friend to me. In Lisbon I found the Portuguese captain, who took me in his ship to Brazil, all those years ago. It was good to see him again, and he helped me with my business. Soon I was ready to go home again—by land. No more adventures and dangers by sea for me!

It was a long, hard journey. We had to cross the mountains between Spain and France in winter, and the snow was deep. Poor Friday was very afraid of the snow. In his country it was always hot, and he did not like cold weather.

Back in England I found a house and began to live a quiet life. My two nephews came to live with me. The younger one wanted to be a sailor, and so I found him a place on a ship. After a while I married, and had three children, two sons and a daughter. Then my wife died, and my nephew, who was now the captain of a ship, came home to see me. He knew that I did not really like a quiet life.

'I have a fine ship, uncle,' he said. 'I'm going out to the East Indies—India, Malaya, the Philippines... Why don't you come with me?'

And so, in 1694，I went to sea again, and had many more adventures. Perhaps one day I'll write another book about them.

danger n. chance that something harmful will happen. 危险。

nephew n. son of your brother or sister. 侄子；外甥。

quiet adj. peaceful; with no trouble. 和平的；宁静的。





9 　英国的家


当我回到英格兰，我觉得自己好像是这个国家的一个陌生客人。许多东西都变了样，没有几个人能记得我。我回到约克市的家，我的父母亲及两个兄弟都已去世了。我找到了一个兄弟的两个儿子。知道我还活着他们非常高兴，我很高兴找到了一些家人。

过了几个月我决定去葡萄牙的里斯本。我有些朋友在那儿可以帮我卖掉在巴西的土地，我需要钱。星期五和我一起去，他一直是我忠实的好朋友。在里斯本我找到了多年前带我去巴西的葡萄牙船长。再次见到他真是太好了，他帮助我打理生意。不久我又准备回家——是经陆路。我再也不想经历充满危险的海上航行了！

这是一次长途跋涉。我们不得不在冬天穿越位于西班牙和法国之间的大山，积雪很深。可怜的星期五非常害怕雪。在他的国家天气总是很热，他不喜欢寒冷的天气。

回到英国我找了座房子，开始过平静的生活。我的两个侄子来和我住在一起。小的那个想做一名水手，于是我给他在船上找了个职位。过了不久我结婚了，生了三个孩子，两个儿子和一个女儿。后来我的妻子去世了，我的那个侄子回家看我，他现在已经当上了船长。他知道我并不真正喜欢平静的生活。

“我有一艘好船，叔叔，”他说，“我将去东印度——印度、马来西亚、菲律宾……为什么你不同我一起去呢？”

于是，1694年，我再次出海，有了更多冒险的经历，或许有一天我会另外写一本关于这些经历的书。





Exercises


A Checking your understanding

Chapters 1-2 Who said these words ?

1 'It was a terrible storm.'

2 'Some of my friends want to go fishing tomorrow.'

3 'I'll go all over the world with you.'

4 'In ten years' time Xury can go free.'

Chapters 3-4 Where in these chapters ...

1 ... was Crusoe's ship going?

2 ... did the sea carry Crusoe?

3 ... was Crusoe's 'kitchen'?

4 ... did Crusoe get his food and tools from?

5 ... was Crusoe's island?

Chapters 5-6 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F) ?

1 Crusoe had to cut down a lot of trees.

2 Crusoe couldn't read or write because he didn't know how to.

3 Crusoe never had meat to eat or milk to drink.

4 When Crusoe found the footprint, he was afraid.

5 Crusoe built himself four houses.

6 Crusoe wanted to kill the wild men.

Chapters 7-8 Find answers to these questions .

1 How many prisoners did the wild men have with them?

2 Where did Crusoe and the prisoner hide the dead bodies?

3 Why did Crusoe call the prisoner 'Man Friday'?

4 What was Friday doing when he saw the great ship?

5 Why was Crusoe surprised?

6 On what date did Crusoe leave the island?

Chapter 9 How much can you remember? Check your answers .

1 How many children did Crusoe and his wife have?

2 Who asked Crusoe to go back to sea?

3 Why did he go?

B Working with language

1 Complete these sentences with information from the story .

1 The Portuguese captain took Crusoe and Xury...

2 Crusoe could make bread because he...

3 When Friday came to live with him, Crusoe was happy because ...

4 The mutiniers were afraid to go back to England because...

5 When Crusoe got back to England, he learnt that his mother and father...

2 Use these words to join the sentences together .

because　　but　　and then

1 Crusoe was a rich man. He could not buy anything.

2 Crusoe gave Friday some trousers. He made him a coat and hat.

3 Friday began to jump up and down. He was excited.

C Activities

1 You are Robinson Crusoe and you write a letter, put it in a bottle and throw it into the sea. Write Crusoe's letter for him. Perhaps it begins like this:

Dear Friend,

If you find this letter, please help me! I am alone on an island ...

2 Next week you are going to be shipwrecked on a lonely island a long way from land. There are no people and no houses on the island, but there are lots of trees and plants and wild animals. You will be alone, but you can take ten things with you. Make a list of your ten things and say why you have chosen them.

京权图字 01-96-1591

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 1994

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

爱丽丝漫游奇境记：英汉对照／（英）卡罗尔（Carroll, L.）著；（英）巴西特（Bassett, J.）改写；夏青译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，1997.1（2014.11 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

ISBN 978-7-5600-1176-9

Ⅰ．①爱…　Ⅱ．①卡…②巴…③夏…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②童话—英国—近代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2011）第087024号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 田　娜

责任编辑：

封面设计： 李　萌

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 1997年1月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-1176-9

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





简　介


“你得知道，这儿人人都是疯子。”切舍猫说，“我是疯子，你也是疯子。”

“你怎么知道我疯了？”爱丽丝问。

“你当然是疯子，”切舍猫说，“到这儿来的人都疯了。”

这是爱丽丝在很早以前一个夏日里的梦。在这梦的奇境里，白兔戴着白手套，毛虫吸着烟斗……疯了的制帽人和三月兔总是在喝茶，而红桃王后要砍掉每一个人的头……这故事很奇怪，可是，在梦境里什么都会发生。

刘易斯·卡洛尔（他的真名叫查尔斯·道森）生于1832年，死于1898年。他在牛津大学教数学。《爱丽丝漫游奇境记》是写给一个名叫爱丽丝·利得尔的小女孩的。后来他又写了一本《透过镜子》，这两部爱丽丝的故事都是最著名的儿童读物。





1Down the rabbit-hole


Down the rabbit-hole

Alice was beginning to get very bored. She and her sister were sitting under the trees. Her sister was reading, but Alice had nothing to do. Once or twice she looked into her sister's book, but it had no pictures or conversations in it.

'And what is the use of a book,' thought Alice, 'without pictures or conversations?'

She tried to think of something to do, but it was a hot day and she felt very sleepy and stupid. She was still sitting and thinking when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran past her.

There was nothing really strange about seeing a rabbit. And Alice was not very surprised when the Rabbit said, 'Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!' (Perhaps it was a little strange, Alice thought later, but at the time she was not surprised.)

But then the Rabbit took a watch out of its pocket , looked at it, and hurried on. At once Alice jumped to her feet.

'I've never before seen a rabbit with either a pocket, or a watch to take out of it,' she thought. And she ran quickly across the field after the Rabbit. She did not stop to think, and when the Rabbit ran down a large rabbit-hole, Alice followed it immediately.

After a little way the rabbit-hole suddenly went down, deep into the ground. Alice could not stop herself falling, and down she went, too.

It was a very strange hole. Alice was falling very slowly, and she had time to think and to look around her. She could see nothing below her because it was so dark. But when she looked at the sides of the hole, she could see cupboards and books and pictures on the walls. She had time to take things out of a cupboard, look at them, and then put them back in a cupboard lower down.

'Well!' thought Alice. 'After a fall like this, I can fall anywhere! I can fall downstairs at home, and I won't cry or say a word about it!'

Down, down, down. 'How far have I fallen now?' Alice said aloud to herself. 'Perhaps I'm near the centre of the earth. Let me think... That's four thousand miles down.' (Alice was very good at her school lessons and could remember a lot of things like this.)

Down, down, down. Would she ever stop falling? Alice was very nearly asleep when, suddenly, she was sitting on the ground. Quickly, she jumped to her feet and looked around. She could see the White Rabbit, who was hurrying away and still talking to himself. 'Oh my ears and whiskers!' he was saying. 'How late it's getting!'

Alice ran after him like the wind. She was getting very near him when he suddenly turned a corner. Alice ran round the corner too, and then stopped. She was now in a long, dark room with doors all round the walls, and she could not see the White Rabbit anywhere.

She tried to open the doors, but they were all locked. 'How will I ever get out again?' she thought sadly. Then she saw a little glass table with three legs, and on the top of it was a very small gold key. Alice quickly took the key and tried it in all the doors, but oh dear! Either the locks were too big, or the key was too small, but she could not open any of the doors.

Then she saw another door, a door that was only forty centimetres high. The little gold key unlocked this door easily, but of course Alice could not get through it — she was much too big. So she lay on the floor and looked through the open door, into a beautiful garden with green trees and bright flowers.

Poor Alice was very unhappy. 'What a wonderful garden!' she said to herself. 'I'd like to be out there — not in this dark room. Why can't I get smaller?' It was already a very strange day, and Alice was beginning to think that anything was possible.

After a while she locked the door again, got up and went back to the glass table. She put the key down and then she saw a little bottle on the table ('I'm sure it wasn't here before,' said Alice). Round the neck of the bottle was a piece of paper with the words DRINK ME in large letters.

But Alice was a careful girl. 'It can be dangerous to drink out of strange bottles,' she said. 'What will it do to me?' She drank a little bit very slowly. The taste was very nice, like chocolate and oranges and hot sweet coffee, and very soon Alice finished the bottle.

*　　*　　*

'What a strange feeling!' said Alice. 'I think I'm getting smaller and smaller every second.'

And she was. A few minutes later she was only twenty-five centimetres high. 'And now,' she said happily, 'I can get through the little door into that beautiful garden.'

She ran at once to the door. When she got there, she remembered that the little gold key was back on the glass table. She ran back to the table for it, but of course, she was now much too small! There was the key, high above her, on top of the table. She tried very hard to climb up the table leg, but she could not do it.

At last, tired and unhappy, Alice sat down on the floor and cried. But after a while she spoke to herself angrily.

'Come now,' she said. 'Stop crying at once. What's the use of crying?' She was a strange child, and often talked to herself like this.

Soon she saw a little glass box near her on the floor. She opened it, and found a very small cake with the words EAT ME on it.

Nothing could surprise Alice now. 'Well, I'll eat it,' she said. 'If I get taller, I can take the key off the table. And if I get smaller, I can get under the door. One way or another, I'll get into the garden. So it doesn't matter what happens!'

She ate a bit of the cake, and then put her hand on top of her head. 'Which way? Which way?' she asked herself, a little afraid. Nothing happened. This was not really surprising. People don't usually get taller or shorter when they eat cake. But a lot of strange things were happening to Alice today. 'It will be very boring,' she said, 'if nothing happens.'

So she went on eating, and very soon the cake was finished.

conversation n. talking between two or more people. 会话；谈话。

conversation

stupid adj. foolish with very slow thinking. 愚蠢的；蠢笨的。

stupid

strange adj. that you do not know; surprising because it does not often happen. 陌生的；奇怪的。

strange

dark n. where there is no light. 黑暗；暗处。

dark

cupboard n. piece of furniture, with shelves and doors, for keeping things in. 碗橱；小橱；柜子。

cupboard

centre n. middle part or point. 中心；中央。

centre

jumped to her feet move quickly off the ground. 她跳了起来。

jumped to her feet

whiskers n. the long hairs that grow near the mouth of (the rabbit). （兔子）胡须。

whiskers

locked adj. a locked door. 锁着的门。

locked

key n. piece of metal that opens a lock. 钥匙。

key

centimetre n. measure of length. 厘米。

centimetre

garden n. piece of open land where flowers grow. 花园。

garden

wonderful adj. that pleases and surprises you very much. 惊人的；奇妙的；精彩的。

wonderful

drink v. take water, milk, coffee, etc. in through the mouth. 喝；饮。

drink

dangerous adj. that will probably bring harm. 危险的。

dangerous

second n. sixtieth part of a minute. 秒；1/60分。

second

remember v. keep something in your mind. 记住；想起。

remember

top n. highest part. 顶端；最上部。

top

climb v. go up with the help of both hands and feet. 爬；攀登。

climb

eat v. put food in your mouth and swallow it. 吃。

eat

way n. road, route, how you go from one place to another. 路；路线；路途。

way

afraid adj. having fear. 害怕。

afraid

happen v. be, take place. 发生。

happen

boring adj. dull, not interesting. 令人厌烦的；没有意思的。

boring





1 　掉进兔子洞


爱丽丝开始觉得有点无聊了。她和姐姐正坐在树下。姐姐在看书，而爱丽丝无事可做。她不时看看姐姐的书，里面既没有图画，也没有对话。

“一本书没有图画和对话有什么用呢？”爱丽丝想。

她想找点什么事儿做做，可天气很热，她觉得又困又无聊。正坐在那儿想事，忽然，一只长着粉红眼睛的白兔跑过她身边。

看到一只兔子并没有什么可奇怪的。兔子说话时爱丽丝居然也不觉得太奇怪。兔子说：“噢，天哪！噢，天哪！我要迟到了！”（后来爱丽丝想起这事觉得是有点儿奇怪，但当时她并不觉得有什么奇怪。）

然后兔子从自己的口袋里掏出一块表，看了看，又开始赶路。爱丽丝立刻跳了起来。

“我从未见过有口袋的兔子，或者兔子掏出一块手表来。”她想。她跟在兔子后面很快跑过田野。当兔子跑进一个大兔子洞时，爱丽丝也没停下来想一想，立即跟了进去。

走了一小段，兔子洞突然向下转，直深入地下。爱丽丝不由自主地掉了下去。

这个兔子洞很奇怪。爱丽丝往下掉得很慢，来得及看看四周。下面很暗，她什么也看不清。但她看到洞壁上有小柜子、书和画儿。她有时间从柜子里拿点东西，看上一眼，再放到下面的柜子里。

“嗯，”爱丽丝想，“跌了这一下子，我到哪儿也不会怕跌倒了！以后在家里跌下楼梯，我不会哭也不会说什么。”

往下掉呀，掉呀，掉呀。爱丽丝自言自语：“现在我掉下来了多深？也许我快到地球中心了。让我想想……那是地下4000英里。”（爱丽丝功课不错，能记住好多这样的事。）

掉呀，掉呀，掉呀。什么时候才能停下来呢？爱丽丝都快睡着了，突然，她一下坐到了地上。她很快跳了起来，看了看周围。她看见白兔正急匆匆走开，还在自言自语：“噢，我的耳朵和胡子！现在太晚了！”

爱丽丝跟在他后面像风一样跑起来。她就快追上他了，兔子突然转了个弯。爱丽丝也转过弯，然后停了下来。这是一个狭长的房间，很暗，墙四周都是门。她看不清白兔在哪儿。

她试着推开门，可门都锁着。“我怎么才能再出去呢？”她想，伤心极了。接着她看见一张三条腿的小玻璃桌，上面放了一把很小的金钥匙。爱丽丝马上拿起钥匙，试了试所有的门，可是天哪！要不就是锁太大了，要不就是钥匙太小了，她一个门也打不开。

这时，她看见另有一个门，只有40厘米高。小金钥匙轻而易举就打开了门，可爱丽丝过不去——她太大了。她趴在地上看过去，门外是一个美丽的花园，里面长着绿树和鲜艳的花儿。

可怜的爱丽丝难过极了。“多漂亮的花园呀！”她想。“我要出去——不想待在这个黑屋子里。可我怎么才能变得小一点呢？”今天真是奇怪的一天，爱丽丝开始琢磨什么事都可能发生。

过了一会她锁上门，站起来回到玻璃桌那儿。她放下钥匙，然后看见桌上有个小瓶子（“我敢肯定刚才它不在这儿，”爱丽丝说）。瓶颈上有一张纸，上面写着大大的两个字“喝我”。

但爱丽丝是个细心谨慎的女孩。“喝奇怪的瓶子里的东西会很危险，”她说。“喝了我会怎么样呢？”她慢慢喝了一点点。味道不错，有点儿像巧克力、橘汁和热的甜咖啡。爱丽丝很快把一瓶都喝了。

*　*　*

“感觉真奇怪！”爱丽丝说，“我想每秒钟我都在越变越小。”

她是在变小。几分钟后她只有25厘米高了。“现在，”她高兴地说，“我能穿过那扇小门去花园里了。”

她立刻跑到门那儿。到了那儿她想起来那把小金钥匙还在那个玻璃桌上。她跑回去拿，可是，她现在太小了！钥匙放得很高，在桌子上呢。她想爬上桌子腿，但爬不上去。

最后，爱丽丝又累又伤心，坐在地板上哭了起来。哭了一会儿她生气地自言自语起来。

“噢，现在，”她说。“快别哭了。哭有什么用呢？”她是个挺怪的孩子，总是这样对自己说话。

很快，她看见自己身边的地板上有一个小盒子。她打开后发现里面有一小块蛋糕，上面写着“吃我”。

现在没什么能让爱丽丝奇怪的了。“好，吃就吃，”她说。“如果我长高了，就能从桌子上拿钥匙了。如果我变小点就能穿过门了。不管怎样，我得去花园里。发生什么都不要紧！”

她吃了点蛋糕，然后把手放在头顶。“是变大了还是变小了？”她问自己，心里有点害怕。什么也没发生。这一点也不奇怪。一般来说，人们吃点蛋糕并不见得就长高或变矮。但今天，爱丽丝身上发生了许多奇怪的事。“如果什么都没 发生，”她说，“那太没意思了。”

于是她接着吃，一会儿蛋糕就吃完了。





2The pool of tears


The pool of tears

'Curiouser and curiouser!' said Alice. (She was very surprised, and for a minute she forgot how to speak good English.)

'I shall be as tall as a house in a minute,' she said. She tried to look down at her feet, and could only just see them. 'Goodbye, feet!' she called. 'Who will put on your shoes now? Oh dear! What nonsense I'm talking!'

Just then her head hit the ceiling of the room. She was now about three metres high. Quickly, she took the little gold key from the table and hurried to the garden door.

Poor Alice! She lay on the floor and looked into the garden with one eye. She could not even put her head through the door.

She began to cry again, and went on crying and crying. The tears ran down her face, and soon there was a large pool of water all around her on the floor. Suddenly she heard a voice, and she stopped crying to listen.

'Oh, the Duchess, the Duchess! She'll be so angry! I'm late, and she's waiting for me. Oh dear, oh dear!'

It was the White Rabbit again. He was hurrying down the long room, with some white gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other hand.

Alice was afraid, but she needed help. She spoke in a quiet vioce. 'Oh, please, Sir—'

The Rabbit jumped wildly, dropped the gloves and the fan, and hurried away as fast as he could.

Alice picked up the fan and the gloves. The room was very hot, so she began to fan herself while she talked. 'Oh dear! How strange everything is today! Did I change in the night? Am I a different person today? But if I'm a different person, then the next question is — who am I? Ah, that's the mystery.'

She began to feel very unhappy again, but then she looked down at her hand. She was wearing one of the Rabbit's white gloves. 'How did I get it on my hand?' she thought. 'Oh, I'm getting smaller again!' She looked round the room. 'I'm already less than a metre high. And getting smaller every second! How can I stop it?' She saw the fan in her other hand, and quickly dropped it.

She was now very, very small — and the little garden door was locked again, and the little gold key was lying on the glass table.

'Things are worse than ever,' thought poor Alice. She turned away from the door, and fell into salt water, right up to her neck. At first she thought it was the sea, but then she saw it was the pool of tears. Her tears. Crying makes a lot of tears when you are three metres tall.

'Oh, why did I cry so much?' said Alice. She swam around and looked for a way out, but the pool was very big. Just then she saw an animal in the water near her. It looked like a large animal to Alice, but it was only a mouse.

'Shall I speak to it?' thought Alice. 'Everything's very strange down here, so perhaps a mouse can talk.'

So she began: 'Oh Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming, oh Mouse!' (Alice did not know if this was the right way to speak to a mouse. But she wanted to be polite.)

The mouse looked at her with its little eyes, but it said nothing.

'Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice. 'Perhaps it's a French mouse.' So she began again, and said in French：'Where is my cat?' (This was the first sentence in her French lesson-book.)

The mouse jumped half out of the water and looked at her angrily.

'Oh, I'm so sorry!' cried Alice quickly. 'Of course, you don't like cats, do you?'

'Like cats?' cried the mouse in a high, angry voice. 'Does any mouse like cats?'

'Well, perhaps not,' Alice began kindly.

But the mouse was now swimming quickly away, and soon Alice was alone again. At last she found her way out of the pool and sat down on the ground. She felt very lonely and unhappy. But after a while the White Rabbit came past again, looking for his white gloves and his fan.

'The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my ears and whiskers! She'll cut my head off, I know she will! Oh, where did I drop my gloves?' Then he saw Alice. 'Why, Mary Ann, what are you doing here? Run home at once, and bring me some gloves and a fan. Quick, now!'

Alice hurried away. 'But where is his house?' she thought while she ran. Strangely, she was no longer in the long room with the little door, but outside in a wood. She ran and ran but could not see a house anywhere, so she sat down under a flower to rest.

pool n. hollow in the ground, where water lies. 水池；水坑。

pool

nonsense n. silly ideas. 胡说；傻话；废话。

nonsense

ceiling n. the part of the room over your head. 天花板。

ceiling

poor adj. that makes you feel sad. 可怜的。

poor

duchess n. noblewoman; wife of a duke. 公爵夫人；女公爵。

duchess

wildly adv. in an excited, violent way. 狂热地；疯狂地；胡乱地。

wildly

change v. become different. 变；改变；变化。

change

mystery n. strange happening or person that you cannot understand or explain. 难以理解的人或事；神秘；奥妙。

mystery

unhappy adj. not happy. 不高兴的。

unhappy

animal n. a living creature, having senses and able to move itself when it wants to. 动物。

animal

mouse n. mice, a small furry animal with a long tail that lives in houses and in fields. 老鼠，耗子。

mouse

polite adj. having or showing good manners, consideration for others, and /or correct social behavior. 有礼貌的，有教养的，关心别人的。

polite

angrily adv. 发怒地，生气地。

angrily

wood n. (=woods) a place where trees grow, smaller than a forest. 小树林。

wood

rest v. to take a rest. 得到休息。

rest





2 　泪水潭


“越奇越怪！”爱丽丝说。（她很奇怪，一会儿她就忘了怎么正确表达了。）

“只需要一分钟我就会长得像一所房子那么高，”她说。她试着看看自己的脚，刚刚能看到脚。“再见吧，脚！”她叫了起来，“现在谁能穿上你的鞋？噢天哪！我在胡说些什么呀！”

正在这时，她的头碰到了天花板上。她现在大约有3米高。她赶快从桌上拿了小金钥匙，跑到通往花园的门那儿。

可怜的爱丽丝！她趴在地板上，用一只眼睛往花园里瞧。她连头都塞不进门里。

她又哭了起来，哭个不停。泪水从脸蛋儿滑落，很快在她周围的地板上积成一大潭水。突然，她听到一个声音，她止住哭声仔细听。

“噢，公爵夫人，公爵夫人！她要气坏了！我迟到了，她在等我呢。噢天哪，天哪！”

又是白兔，他正从长房间的另一边走过来，一只手上拿着白手套，另一只手上拿了把大扇子。

爱丽丝有点害怕，但她需要帮助。她轻声说：“嗯，先生，请——”

兔子猛地跳了起来，丢下手套和扇子，风一样地跑了。

爱丽丝拣起扇子和手套。房间里很热，于是她一边自言自语一边扇着扇子。“噢我的天！今天的每一件事都多么奇怪！晚上我是不是变了呢？今天我是另外一个人吗？但如果我变了个人，那下一个问题是——我到底是谁 ？啊，真是个谜。”

她又伤心起来，然后她看看自己的手。她正戴着兔子的一只手套。“我怎么戴上这手套的呢？”她想。“噢，我现在又变小了！”她四下看看。“我已经不到一米高。每秒钟都在变小！我怎么才能不变小了呢？”她看到另一只手里的扇子，赶快扔了。

她现在很小很小了——可通往花园的小门又锁上了，而小金钥匙还在玻璃桌上。

“没有比这些更糟糕的事了。”可怜的爱丽丝想。她从门边走开，又掉进了咸水里，水没到脖子。一开始，她以为是海，但马上明白了，这是泪水潭，她的眼泪。当你3米高的时候，哭一下会流很多眼泪的。

“噢，我为什么总哭？”爱丽丝说。她游了起来，想找一条路，但水潭很大。正在这时她看到附近的水里有个动物。爱丽丝看着觉得很大，其实它只是一只耗子。

“我要和它说说吗？”爱丽丝想。“这儿每件事都很奇怪，所以耗子也许会说话。”

于是她开口了：“喂，耗子，你知道出这水潭的路吗？我游得很累了，噢耗子！”（爱丽丝不知道这样和耗子说话对不对。但她想礼貌些。）

耗子用小眼睛瞅瞅她，什么也没说。

“也许它不懂英语，”爱丽丝想。“可能它是只法国耗子。”她又开口了，这次是用法语：“我的猫儿在哪？”（这是她的法语课本上的第一句话。）

耗子从水里一下蹦出来半个身子，愤怒地看着她。

“哎呀，对不起！”爱丽丝马上说，“当然，你不喜欢猫，是吗？”

“喜欢猫？”耗子愤怒地高声叫道，“有喜欢猫的耗子吗？”

“嗯，也许没有。”爱丽丝友好地说。

但耗子还是迅速游走了，又剩下爱丽丝一个人。她终于游出了水潭，坐在地上。她觉得又孤独又难过。过了一会儿，白兔又经过这儿，他正在找他的白手套和扇子。

“公爵夫人！公爵夫人！噢我的耳朵和胡子！她会砍了我的头，我知道她会的！噢，我到底 把我的手套掉在哪儿了？”他看见了爱丽丝。“玛丽·安，你在这儿干什么？赶快回家，给我带把扇子和一些手套。快点，现在就去！”

爱丽丝赶快跑。“可他的房子在哪儿？”她一边跑一边想。奇怪的是，她不再是在那间有小门的狭长房间里了，而是在一片树林里。她跑呀，跑呀，可在哪儿也没看见有房子，所以她坐在一朵花儿下休息休息。





3Conversation with a caterpillar


Conversation with a caterpillar

'Now,' Alice said to herself. 'First, I must get a little bigger, and second, I must find my way into that beautiful garden. I think that will be the best plan. But oh dear! How shall I get bigger? Perhaps I must eat or drink something, but the question is, what?'

Alice looked all around her at the flowers and the trees, but she could not see anything to eat. Then she saw a large mushroom near her. It was as tall as she was. She walked across to look at it, and there, on top of the mushroom, was a large caterpillar, smoking a pipe. After a while, the Caterpillar took the pipe out of its mouth and said to Alice in a slow, sleepy voice, 'Who are you ?'

'I don't really know, sir,' said Alice. 'I know who I was when I got up this morning, but I have changed so often since then. I think I am a different person now.'

'What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar. 'Explain yourself!'

'I can't explain myself ' sir,' said Alice, 'because I'm not myself, you know.'

'I don't know,' said the Caterpillar.

'It's difficult to describe,' Alice replied politely. 'One minute I'm very small, the next minute I'm as tall as a house, then I'm small again. Usually, I stay the same all day, and changing so often feels very strange to me.'

'You!' said the Caterpillar, in a very unfriendly voice. 'Who are you ?'

They were now back at the beginning of their conversation, which was not very helpful. Alice felt a little cross and decided to walk away.

'Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her. 'I've something important to say.'

This sounded better, so Alice turned back.

'Never get angry,' said the Caterpillar.

'Is that all?' said Alice, trying not to be angry.

'No,' said the Caterpillar. For some minutes it smoked its pipe and did not speak, but at last it took the pipe out of its mouth, and said, 'So you've changed, have you? How tall do you want to be?'

'I would like to be a little larger, sir, please,' said Alice. 'Eight centimetres is really very small.'

For a while the Caterpillar smoked its pipe. Then it shook itself, got down off the mushroom, and moved slowly away into the grass. It did not look back at Alice, but said, 'One side will make you taller, and the other side will make you shorter.'

'One side of what ?' thought Alice to herself.

She did not say this aloud, but the Caterpillar said, 'Of the mushroom.' Then it moved away into the wood.

Alice looked at the mushroom carefully, but it was round, and did not have sides. At last she broke off a piece in each hand from opposite sides of the mushroom. She ate some of the piece in her left hand, and waited to see what would happen.

A minute later her head was as high as the tallest tree in the wood, and she was looking at a sea of green leaves. Then a bird appeared and began to fly around her head, screaming, 'Egg thief! Egg thief! Go away!'

'I'm not an egg thief,' said Alice.

'Oh no?' said the bird angrily. 'But you eat eggs, don't you?'

'Well, yes, I do, but I don't steal them,' explained Alice quickly. 'We have them for breakfast, you know.'

'Then how do you get them, if you don't steal them?' screamed the bird.

This was a difficult question to answer, so Alice brought up her right hand through the leaves and ate a little from the other piece of mushroom. She began to get smaller at once and, very carefully, she ate first from one hand, then from the other, until she was about twenty-five centimetres high.

'That's better,' she said to herself. 'And now I must find that garden. ' She began to walk through the wood, and after a while she came to a little house.

caterpillar n. long creature, like a worm with hairs, that changes into a moth or butterfly. 毛毛虫（蝴蝶等的幼虫）。

caterpillar

mushroom n. plant with no leaves, which we can eat. 蘑菇，食用菌。

mushroom

pipe n. thing for smoking tobacco, etc. 烟斗。

pipe

sounded v. （sound的过去时，过去分词）seem. 听起来。

sounded

shook v. past tense of shake, shake （摇，发抖）的过去时。

shook

opposite adj. totally different. 相反的，相对的，对立的。

opposite

scream v. 尖叫，叫喊。

scream

thief n. someone who steals. 小偷；盗贼。

thief

steal v. secretly take something that is not yours. 偷；窃取。

steal





3 　和毛虫的谈话


“现在，”爱丽丝想。“第一，我得变大一点，第二，我必须想办法进到那个美丽的花园里。我想，这是最好的计划。但天哪！我怎么才能变大呢？也许我得吃点什么或喝点什么，但问题是，什么呢？”

爱丽丝看看周围的花和树，但她看不见有什么东西可吃。这时，她看见附近有一个大蘑菇，和她一样高。她走过去看了看，在那儿，在蘑菇顶上有一只大毛虫，正在吸烟斗呢。过了一会儿，毛虫从嘴里取出烟斗，慢慢地、困倦地对爱丽丝开口了，“你 是谁？”

“先生，我确实也不知道。”爱丽丝说，“今天早上我起床的时候还知道自己是谁 ，但那之后我变了那么多次。我想现在自己是个不同的人了。”

“你这么说是什么意思？”毛虫问，“解释一下！”

“我没法解释自己 先生。”爱丽丝说，“因为你知道吗，我现在不是自己了。”

“我不懂。”毛虫说。

“这很难解释，”爱丽丝礼貌地回答。“这一分钟我还很小，下一分钟我就和房子一样高了，然后我又变小了。通常，我一整天都没什么变化，这样频繁地变来变去真让我觉得奇怪。”

“你！”毛虫很不友好地说。“你 是谁？”

现在他们又回到谈话的开头了，这于事无补。爱丽丝有点生气了，决定走开。

“回来！”毛虫在她后面嚷嚷，“我有重要的事要说。”

这听起来还差不多，爱丽丝转了回来。

“任何时候都别生气。”毛虫说。

“就这些吗？”爱丽丝说，努力让自己别发火。

“不，”毛虫说。它吸着烟斗，好一会儿都没开口，最后把烟斗从嘴里抽出来，说道，“你已经变过了，对吗？你想长多高？”

“我很想长高一点 先生，”爱丽丝说。“8厘米实在太矮了。”

毛虫吸了一会儿烟斗。然后它晃晃身子，从蘑菇上下来，慢慢地爬到草丛里。它没有回头看看爱丽丝，只是说，“一边可以让你长高，另一边可以让你变矮。”

“什么的一边？”爱丽丝心里想。

她并没说出声来，可毛虫说：“蘑菇的。”然后它进了森林。

爱丽丝仔细看了看蘑菇，蘑菇是圆的，没有两边。最后，她两手从蘑菇正相对的两边各掰下一片。她吃了点左手里的那片，然后等着看看会发生什么。

一分钟后，她的头和森林里最高的树一样高，她看着那一片绿叶的海洋。这时，有只小鸟出现了并绕着她的头飞，尖叫着：“偷蛋的贼，偷蛋的贼，滚开！”

“我不是 偷蛋的贼，”爱丽丝说。

“不是？”小鸟生气地说，“但你吃蛋，对不对？”

“对，我吃蛋，但我不偷蛋 ，”爱丽丝赶忙解释。“你知道，我们早饭吃蛋。”

“那么，如果不是偷，你们怎么弄到蛋的？”小鸟尖叫着说。

这个问题很难回答，爱丽丝把右手从树叶间抽出来，吃了点那片蘑菇。她马上开始变小了，然后，她小心翼翼地吃点这片，吃点那片，直到她有25厘米那么高。

“这还差不多，”她对自己说，“现在我得找到那个花园。”她走进树林，过了一会儿到了一所小房子面前。





4　The Cheshire Cat


　The Cheshire Cat

There was a boy outside the door, with a large letter in his hand. (He was dressed like a boy, but his face was very like a fish, Alice thought.) The Fish-Boy knocked at the door, and a second later a large plate came flying out of an open window.

'A letter for the Duchess,' the Fish-Boy shouted. He pushed the letter under the door and went away.

Alice went up to the door and knocked, but there was a lot of noise inside and nobody answered. So she opened the door and walked in.

She found herself in a kitchen, which was full of smoke. There was a very angry cook by the fire, and in the middle of the room sat the Duchess, holding a screaming baby. Every few minutes a plate crashed to the floor. There was also a large cat, which was sitting on a chair and grinning from ear to ear.

'Please,' Alice said politely to the Duchess, 'why does your cat grin like that?'

'It's a Cheshire Cat,' said the Duchess. 'That's why.'

'I didn't know that cats could grin,' said Alice.

'Well, you don't know much,' said the Duchess. Another plate crashed to the floor and Alice jumped. 'Here!' the Duchess went on. 'You can hold the baby for a bit, if you like. The Queen has invited me to play croquet, and I must go and get ready.' She pushed the baby into Alice's arms and hurried out of the room.

'Oh, the poor little thing!' said Alice, looking at the baby, which had a very strange face. She took it outside into the wood and walked around under the trees. Then the baby began to make strange noises, and Alice looked into its face again. Its eyes were really very small for a baby, and its nose now looked very like the nose of a pig.

'Don't make noises like that, my dear,' said Alice. 'It's not polite. You're beginning to sound like a pig.'

But a few minutes later, there was no mistake. It was a pig. Alice put it carefully on the ground, and it ran quietly away on its four legs into the wood.

'I'm pleased about that,' Alice said to herself. 'It will be a good-looking pig, but it would be terrible to be a child with a face like that.'

She was thinking about pigs and children when she suddenly saw the Cheshire Cat in a tree. The Cat grinned at her, and she went nearer to it.

'Please,' she said, 'can you tell me which way to go from here?'

'But where do you want to get to?' said the Cat.

'It doesn't really matter —' began Alice.

'Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

'But I would like to get somewhere ,' Alice explained.

'If you just go on walking,' said the Cat, 'in the end you'll arrive somewhere.'

That was true, thought Alice, but not very helpful, so she tried another question. 'What kind of people live near here?'

'To the left,' the Cat said, 'lives a Hatter. And to the right, lives a March Hare. You can visit either of them. They're both mad.'

'But I don't want to visit mad people,' said Alice.

'We're all mad here, you know,' said the Cat. 'I'm mad. You're mad.'

'How do you know that I'm mad?' said Alice.

'Of course you're mad,' said the Cat. 'Only mad people come here.'

Alice was thinking about this, but the Cat went on, 'Are you playing croquet with the Queen today?'

'I would like to very much,' said Alice, 'but nobody has invited me yet.'

'You'll see me there, ' said the Cat, and vanished.

Alice was not really surprised at this, because so many strange things were happening today. She was still looking at the tree when, suddenly, the Cat appeared again.

'I forgot to ask,' said the Cat. 'What happened to the baby?'

'It turned into a pig,' Alice said.

'I'm not surprised,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

Alice began to walk on, and decided to visit the March Hare. 'It's the month of May now,' she said to herself, 'so perhaps the Hare won't be as mad as he was in March.'

Suddenly, there was the Cheshire Cat again, sitting in another tree. Alice jumped in surprise.

'Do you think,' she said politely, 'that you could come and go more slowly?'

'All right,' said the Cat. And this time it vanished very slowly. First its tail went, then its body, then its head, and last, the grin.

'Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice, 'but never a grin without a cat!'

Soon she saw the house of the March Hare in front of her. It was a large house, so she ate a little piece of mushroom to get bigger, and walked on.

Cheshire Cat 切舍猫。

Cheshire Cat

push v. move something strongly away from yourself. 推，推动。

push

cook n. someone who makes food ready to eat. 厨师；炊事员。

cook

grin v. 咧着嘴笑。

grin

croquet n. a game played on grass in which players knock bails through small metal arches with a hammer. 草地槌球游戏。

croquet

mistake n. something that you do or say wrongly. 错误；过失。

mistake

terrible adj. very bad. 极坏的；很糟的。

terrible

hatter n. a maker and/or seller of hats. 制帽子的人；帽商。

hatter

hare n. an animal rather like a rabbit , but usu. larger, with long ears, a sort tail, and long back legs which make it able to run fast. 野免。

hare

mad adj. ill in the mind. 精神错乱的；疯的。

mad

vanish v. to disappear. 消失，消散。

vanish

tail n. part of an animal, bird, or fish that sticks out at the back and can move. 尾巴。

tail





4 　切舍猫


门外站着一个男孩，手里拿着好大的一封信。（他穿得像个男孩，爱丽丝觉得他的脸却很像一条鱼。）鱼孩敲了一下门，眨眼功夫一个大盘子从一扇打开的窗户飞了出来。

“有封给公爵夫人的信。”鱼孩大喊道。他把信从门下塞了进去，然后走开了。

爱丽丝走上前去敲了敲门，里面一片嘈杂声，却无人应门。于是她打开门，走了进去。

她发现自己在一个小厨房里，房里尽是烟。火边有一个厨师，气哼哼地；在房间中央坐着公爵夫人，抱着一个正尖声大叫的婴儿。每隔几分钟就有一个盘子摔到地上。椅子上坐着一只很大的猫，正咧着大嘴笑呢。

“请问，”爱丽丝客客气气地对公爵夫人说，“你的猫为什么那样咧着嘴笑？”

“这是一只切舍猫，”公爵夫人说，“这就是原因。”

“我不知道猫会 咧着嘴笑。”爱丽丝说。

“你不知道的事多着呢，”公爵夫人说。又有一只盘子摔到地上，爱丽丝跳了起来。“来！”公爵夫人接着说，“要是你愿意，这个孩子给你抱一会儿吧。王后请我打槌球，现在我得去准备一下。”她把孩子塞到爱丽丝的怀里，急匆匆地走出去了。

“噢，可怜的小东西！”爱丽丝说。她看了看孩子的脸，真是张很奇怪的脸。她带着它出了门，在树林里转了转。它开始发出一种奇怪的声音，爱丽丝又看看它的脸。眼睛很小，不像婴孩的眼睛，鼻子看起来像猪鼻子。

“亲爱的，别那样出声，”爱丽丝说。“这很不礼貌，听起来会像头猪一样。”

但过了一会儿这就算不上一个错误了。它确实是 只猪。爱丽丝小心地把它放在地上，它四条腿着地，静静地跑进森林里去了。

“我很高兴，”爱丽丝自言自语道。“它会是只漂亮的猪，可小孩要长这么一张脸就太可怕了。”

正当她想着猪和小孩时，突然看见切舍猫正坐在一棵树上。猫冲她咧嘴一笑，爱丽丝向它靠了靠。

她说：“请你告诉我，从这儿我该往哪条路走？”

“可你要上哪儿去呀？”猫问。

“去哪儿倒无所谓——”爱丽丝答道。

“那你走哪条路都行。”猫说。

“但我想去个什么地方 。”爱丽丝解释道。

“如果你一直走，你总会到个什么地方的。”猫说。

这倒是真的，爱丽丝想，可毫无意义。所以她试着问点别的。“这附近都住着什么样的人？”

猫回答：“左边住着一个制帽人。右边住了一只三月兔。你可以去看看他们中的任何一位。他们都疯了。”

“我可不想去看疯子。”爱丽丝说。

“你得知道，这儿人人都是疯子。”切舍猫说：“我是疯子，你也是疯子。”

“你怎么知道我疯了？”爱丽丝问。

“你当然是疯子，”切舍猫说，“到这儿来的人都疯了。”

爱丽丝还在想着这个事，猫又接着问：“今天你去跟王后打槌球吗？”

“我很想去，”爱丽丝说，“可没人请我啊。”

“你在那儿会看到我的。”切舍猫说，然后—下子不见了。

爱丽丝也不觉得奇怪，因为今天发生了那么多奇怪的事。她还在那儿盯着树看，突然，切舍猫又出现了。

“我忘了问，”猫说：“那娃娃怎么啦？”

“变成了一头猪。”爱丽丝说。

“我一点也不觉得奇怪。”猫说，然后又不见了。

爱丽丝开步走了，决定去拜访三月兔。她想：“现在是五月，不是三月，也许这只兔不像在三月份那么疯了。”

突然，切舍猫又出现了。它坐在另一棵树上。爱丽丝吃惊地跳了起来。

“你说，”爱丽丝客气地说，“你可以慢一点出现，慢一点消失吗？”

“可以。”猫说。这次，它慢慢地隐没。先是尾巴没了，然后是身体、头，最后是咧着笑的嘴。

“我常看见不咧开嘴笑的猫，”爱丽丝想，“可还没见过有咧开的嘴而没有身子的猫。”

一会儿她看到三月兔的房子就在眼前。房子挺大，所以爱丽丝吃了一小片蘑菇以便长大一点，然后走上前去。





5　A mad tea-party


　A mad tea-party

There was a table under a tree outside the house, and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea. A Dormouse was sitting between them, asleep. The three of them were all sitting together at one corner of the table, but the table was large and there were many other seats. Alice sat down in a big chair at one end.

'Have some coffee,' the March Hare said in a friendly voice.

Alice looked all round the table, but she could only see a teapot. 'I don't see any coffee,' she said.

'There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

'Then why did you ask me to have some?' said Alice crossly. 'It wasn't very polite of you.'

'It wasn't very polite of you to sit down. We haven't invited you to tea,' said the March Hare.

'But there are lots of seats,' said Alice.

'Your hair's too long,' said the Hatter, looking at Alice with interest.

'It's not polite to say things like that,' said Alice.

The Hatter looked surprised, but he said, 'Why is a bird like a desk?'

Alice was pleased. She enjoyed playing word games, so she said, 'That's an easy question.'

'Do you mean you know the answer?' said the March Hare.

'Yes,' said Alice.

'Then you must say what you mean,' the March Hare said.

'I do,' Alice said quickly. 'Well, I mean what I say. And that's the same thing, you know.'

'No, it isn't!' said the Hatter. 'Listen to this. I see what I eat means one thing, but I eat what I see means something very different.'

Alice did not know what to say to this. So she took some tea and some bread-and-butter while she thought about it. The Dormouse woke up for a minute and then went to sleep again. After a while the Hatter took out his watch, shook it, then looked at it sadly.

'Two days slow! I told you that butter wasn't good for watches!' he said angrily to the March Hare.

'It was the best butter,' said the March Hare sadly.

Alice was looking at the watch with interest. 'It's a strange watch,' she said. 'It shows the day of the week, but not the time.'

'But we know the time,' said the Hatter. 'It's always six o'clock here.'

Alice suddenly understood. 'Is that why there are all these cups and plates?' she said. 'It' s always tea-time here, and you go on moving round the table. Is that right? But what happens when you come to the beginning again?'

'Don't ask questions,' said the March Hare crossly. 'You must tell us a story now.'

'But I don't know any stories,' said Alice.

Then the March Hare and the Hatter turned to the Dormouse. 'Wake up, Dormouse!' they shouted loudly in its ears. 'Tell us a story.'

'Yes, please do,' said Alice.

The Dormouse woke up and quickly began to tell a story, but a few minutes later it was asleep again. The March Hare poured a little hot tea on its nose, and the Hatter began to look for a clean plate. Alice decided to leave and walked away into the wood. She looked back once, and the March Hare and the Hatter were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

'Well, I won't go there again,' said Alice. 'What a stupid tea-party it was!' Just then she saw a door in one of the trees. 'How curious!' she thought. 'But everything is strange today. I think I'll go in.'

So she went in. And there she was, back in the long room with the little glass table. At once, she picked up the gold key from the table, unlocked the little door into the garden, and then began to eat a piece of mushroom. When she was down to about thirty centimetres high, she walked through the door, and then, at last, she was in the beautiful garden with its green trees and bright flowers.

dormouse n. 睡鼠。

dormouse

teapot n. pot for holding tea. 茶壶。

teapot

interest n. wanting to know or learn about something or someone because it is important to you. 兴趣；关心。

interest

wordgames n. 拼字游戏。

wordgames

do you mean... 你是指……；你的意思是……

do you mean...

butter n. yellow fat made from milk, spread on bread, used in cooking, etc. 黄油。

butter

crossly adv. 生气地。

crossly

bright adj. full of light; shining; giving out or throwing back light very strongly. 闪亮的；明亮的。

bright





5 　疯狂的茶会


房子外的树下有一张桌子，三月兔和制帽人正在喝茶。有只睡鼠在他们中间，睡着了。他们三个坐在桌子的一角，可桌子实际上很大，还有很多座位。爱丽丝在一头的一把大椅子上坐下来。

“请喝点咖啡吧。”三月兔友好地说。

爱丽丝看看桌子周围，可只看到一个茶壶。“我没看见有咖啡。”她说。

“是没有咖啡。”三月兔说。

“那你为什么让我喝呢？”爱丽丝生气地说，“你没有礼貌。”

“你自己坐下来就很不礼貌。我们没邀请你喝茶。”三月兔说。

“但这儿有很多座位。”爱丽丝说。

“你的头发太长了。”制帽人说，他很感兴趣地看着爱丽丝。

“说这样的事才没礼貌呢。”爱丽丝说。

制帽人看起来很吃惊，但他接着说，“为什么鸟像桌子？”

爱丽丝高兴起来。她喜欢玩拼字游戏。所以她说，“这个问题很简单。”“你是说你知道答案？”三月兔说。

“是的。”爱丽丝说。

“那你得说你是怎么想的。”三月兔说。

“当然，”爱丽丝立刻说，“我说的就是我想的。你该知道，这是一样的。”

“不，不是！”制帽人说，“听着，我看见我吃的是一回事，而我吃我看见的是另一回事，这是很不同的。”

爱丽丝对这些不知该说什么好。她一边思考这事儿，一边喝了点茶，吃了点黄油面包。睡鼠醒了一会儿又睡过去了。过了一会儿，制帽人掏出自己的手表，摇晃了一下，很伤心地看了又看。

“慢了两天！我告诉过你，黄油对表没好处。”他气哼哼地对三月兔说。

“这是最好 的黄油，”三月兔说，很是失望。

爱丽丝好奇地看了看表。“这表真奇怪，”她说，“它只报星期几，不报时间。”

“可我们知道时间，”制帽人说，“在这儿永远是六点钟。”

爱丽丝一下子明白了。“这就是为什么有杯子和盘子的原因吗？”她说，“这儿永远是喝茶的时间，你们就绕着桌子转。对不对？但你们回到开始后又会怎么样呢？”

“别问来问去，”三月兔生气了，“你现在得给我们讲个故事。”

“可是我什么故事也不知道。”爱丽丝说。

然后三月兔和制帽人转向睡鼠。“醒醒，睡鼠！”他们冲着它的耳朵喊起来，“给我们讲个故事。”

“对，请讲个故事吧。”爱丽丝说。

睡鼠醒了，马上开始讲故事。可过了几分钟，它又睡着了。三月兔把热茶倒在睡鼠的鼻子上，制帽人开始找一个干净的盘子。爱丽丝决定走，就进了小树林。她回头一看，三月兔和制帽人正想法子把睡鼠塞到茶壶里去呢。

“我再也不到那儿 去了。”爱丽丝说。“这茶会真愚蠢！”这时，她看见一棵树上有一扇门。“真奇怪！”她想。“今天什么事都很奇怪。我想我该进去。”

于是她走了进去她又回到那个有张小玻璃桌的狭长的房间里。她马上从桌子上拿起那个小金钥匙，打开通往花园的门，再吃一片蘑菇。当自己缩小到差不多30厘米高时，她就穿过门，终于又到了 那个美丽的花园，里面尽是绿树和亮丽的鲜花。





6　The Queen's game of croquet


　The Queen's game of croquet

Near the door there was a rose-tree and three gardeners, who were looking at the roses in a very worried way.

'What's the matter?' Alice said to them.

'You see, Miss,' said the first gardener, 'these roses are white, but the Queen only likes red roses, and she —'

'The Queen!' said the second gardener suddenly, and at once, the three gardeners lay down flat on their faces. Alice turned round and saw a great crowd of people.

It was a pack of cards, walking through the garden. There were clubs (they were soldiers), and diamonds, and ten little children (they were hearts). Next came some Kings and Queens. Then Alice saw the White Rabbit, and behind him, the Knave of Hearts. And last of all, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

When the crowd came near to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said, ' Who are you?'

'My name is Alice, Your Majesty,' said Alice very politely. But she thought to herself, 'They're only a pack of cards. I don't need to be afraid of them!'

'And who are these ?' said the Queen, looking at the three gardeners. Then she saw the white roses, and her face turned red and angry. 'Off with their heads!' she shouted, and soldiers hurried up to take the gardeners away. The Queen turned to Alice. 'Can you play croquet?' she shouted.

'Yes!' shouted Alice.

'Come on, then!' shouted the Queen. The crowd began to move on, and Alice went with them.

'It's — it's a very fine day,' said a worried voice in her ear. Alice saw that the White Rabbit was by her side.

'Very fine,' said Alice. 'Where's the Duchess?'

'Shhh!' said the Rabbit in a hurried voice. 'She's in prison, waiting for execution.'

'What for?' said Alice.

But just then the Queen shouted, 'Get to your places!', and the game began.

It was the strangest game of croquet in Alice's life! The balls were hedgehogs, and the mallets were flamingoes. And the hoops were made by soldiers, who turned over and stood on their hands and feet. Alice held her flamingo's body under her arm, but the flamingo turned its long neck first this way and then that way. At last, Alice was ready to hit the ball with the flamingo's head. But by then, the hedgehog was tired of waiting and was walking away across the croquet-ground. And when both the flamingo and the hedgehog were ready, there was no hoop! The soldiers too were always getting up and walking away. It really was a very difficult game, Alice thought.

The players all played at the same time, and they were always arguing and fighting for hedgehogs. Nobody could agree about anything. Very soon, the Queen was wildly angry, and went around shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her head!' about once a minute.

Alice began to feel worried. 'The Queen is sure to argue with me soon,' she thought. 'And what will happen to me then? They're cutting people's heads off all the time here. I'm surprised there is anyone left alive!'

Just then she saw something very strange. She watched carefully, and after a minute or two she saw that the thing was a grin. 'It's the Cheshire Cat,' she said to herself. 'Now I'll have somebody to talk to.'

'How are you getting on?' said the Cat, when its mouth appeared.

Alice waited. 'I can't talk to something without ears,' she thought. Slowly the Cat's eyes, then its ears, and then the rest of its head appeared. But it stopped at the neck, and its body did not appear.

Alice began to tell the Cat all about the game. 'It's very difficult to play,' she said. 'Everybody argues all the time, and the hoops and the hedgehogs walk away.'

'How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat quietly.

'I don't,' said Alice. 'She's very —' Just then she saw the Queen behind her, so she went on, '—clever. She's the best player here.'

The Queen smiled and walked past.

'Who are you talking to?' said the King. He came up behind Alice and looked at the Cat's head in surprise.

'It's a friend of mine — a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice.

'I'm not sure that I like it,' said the King. 'But it can touch my hand if it likes.'

'I prefer not to,' said the Cat.

'Well!' said the King angrily. He called out to the Queen, 'My dear! There's a cat here, and I don't like it.'

The Queen did not look round. 'Off with its head!' she shouted. 'Call for the executioner!'

Alice was a little worried for her friend, but when the executioner arrived, everybody began to argue.

'I can't cut off a head,' said the executioner, 'if there isn't a body to cut it off from.'

'You can cut the head off,' said the King, 'from anything that's got a head.'

'If somebody doesn't do something quickly,' said the Queen, 'I'll cut everybody's head off.'

Nobody liked that plan very much, so they all turned to Alice. 'And what do you say?' they cried.

'The Cat belongs to the Duchess,' said Alice carefully. 'Perhaps you could ask her about it.'

'She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner. 'Bring her here at once.'

But then the Cat's head slowly began to vanish, and when the executioner came back with the Duchess, there was nothing there. The King ran wildly up and down, looking for the Cat, and the Duchess put her arm round Alice. 'I'm so pleased to see you again, my dear!' she said.

'Let's get on with the game,' the Queen said angrily, and Alice followed her back to the croquet-ground.

The game went on, but all the time the Queen was arguing, and shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her head!' Soon there were no hoops left, because the soldiers (who were the hoops) were too busy taking everybody to prison. And at the end there were only three players left — the King, the Queen, and Alice.

The Queen stopped shouting and said to Alice, 'Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

'No,' said Alice. 'I'm not sure what a Mock Turtle is.'

'Then come with me,' said the Queen.

They found the Mock Turtle down by the sea. Next to him was a Gryphon, asleep in the sun. Then the Queen hurried away, saying, 'I have to get on with some executions.'

The Gryphon woke up, and said sleepily to Alice, 'It's just talk, you know. They never execute anybody.'

Alice was pleased to hear this. She felt a little afraid of the Gryphon and the Mock Turtle, because they were so large. But they were very friendly, and sang songs and told her many stories about their lives. The Mock Turtle was in the middle of a very sad song when they all heard a shout a long way away: 'It's beginning!'

'Come on! We must hurry!' cried the Gryphon. It took Alice by the hand and began to run.

gardener n. 园丁，从事园艺的人。

gardener

lay down flat on their faces 脸贴在地面上。

lay down flat on their faces

lay v. 放；摘；置。

lay

flat adv. completely . 完全地。

flat

a pack of cards 一副（扑克）牌。

a pack of cards

Knave n. Jack. 杰克。

Knave

Majesty n. a title for speaking to or of a king or Queen. 对国王或王后的称呼，陛下。Your～ ，（陛下）您。

Majesty

prison n. a large building where criminals are kept looked up as a punishment. 监狱。

prison

execution n. legal killing as a punishment . 处决；处死。

execution

hedgehog n. a small insect-eating animal which has spines (sharp needle-like hairs) standing out from its back. 刺猬；豪猪。

hedgehog

mallet n. a wooden hammer. 木槌。

mallet

flamingo n. -gos or -goes a tall tropical water bird with tong thin legs and pink and red feathers. 火烈鸟。

flamingo

-gos

-goes

hoop n. 弓形小球门。

hoop

argue v. -gued, -guing 争吵，争论。

argue

clever adj. quick to understand and learn. 聪明的；伶俐的；学得快的。

clever

player n. someone who plays a game. 运动员。

player

prefer v. like someone or something better. 更喜欢；宁愿。

prefer

up and down one way and then the other way. 上上下下；来回地。

up and down

mock turtle 充海龟（一种海龟）。

mock turtle

Gryphon n. = griffin. （希腊神话中的格里芬）鹰头狮身带有翅膀的怪兽。

Gryphon





6 　王后的槌球游戏


在门附近，有棵玫瑰树。旁边站了三个园丁，正焦虑地看着玫瑰花。

“怎么啦？”爱丽丝问他们。

“你看，小姐，”第一个园丁说，“这些玫瑰是白的，可王后只喜欢红 玫瑰，而且她——”

“王后！”第二个园丁突然说。三个园丁马上趴下，脸贴在地面上爱丽丝转过身，看见一大群人。

这是一副牌，正在穿过花园。有梅花（他们是士兵），方块和十个小孩（他们是红桃）。随后是国王和王后们。这时，爱丽丝看见了白兔，他后面是红桃杰克，最后是红桃国王和王后 。

这支队伍来到爱丽丝跟前，大家都停下来打量她，王后说：“你是谁？”

“我叫爱丽丝，陛下，”爱丽丝很有礼貌地说。她想，“他们不过是一副纸牌，我不怕他们！”

“这些人 都是谁？”王后看着三个园丁问道。正在这时，她看见了白玫瑰，脸一下子气得通红。“砍掉他们的头！”她喊道，士兵们赶快把园丁们拉走。王后转向爱丽丝：“你会打槌球吗？”她喊着。

“会！”爱丽丝也喊着，

“那么来吧！”王后吆喝一声。大队人马接着走，爱丽丝跟着他们。

“这——这是个好天气。”她听见一个发愁的说话声。白兔就在她身边。

“很好，”爱丽丝说，“公爵夫人在哪儿？”

“嘘！”白兔很快说，“她在监狱里，等着受死。”

“为什么？”爱丽丝问。

正在这时，王后喊：“各就各位！”比赛开始了。

这是爱丽丝见过的最奇怪的槌球游戏！球是刺猬，木槌是红鹤。弓形小球门由士兵组成，他们转过身去，手脚着地站着。爱丽丝用胳膊抱着红鹤的身体，但红鹤把脖子一会儿转到这边，一会儿转到那边。最后，爱丽丝准备好用红鹤的头去击球。可正在这时，刺猬等烦了，穿过槌球场走开了。当红鹤和刺猬都准备好时，却没有球门！士兵们也总是站起来走开。这场球可是太难打了，爱丽丝想。

打球的人总是同时打，老是争吵，争刺猬。在任何一件事上大家意见都不一致。很快王后气坏了，她走来走去，大约隔一分钟就大喊“砍掉他的脑袋”或者“砍掉她的脑袋”。

爱丽丝开始有点担心了。她想：“王后也会很快和我吵起来的，那可怎么办？在这儿他们一直在砍头。可奇怪的是居然还有人活着！”

这时她看到一个很奇怪的东西。她仔细看，过了一会儿她看出来了，是一张咧着笑的嘴。“是切舍猫，”她心里想。“现在我可有人说话了。”

“你怎么样？”猫问，嘴完全显露出来了。

爱丽丝等了等。她想，“我没法跟一个没耳朵的东西说话。”慢慢地猫的眼睛，然后是耳朵，然后是头都出来了。但到颈部就停下来了，身子没出来。

爱丽丝就给猫讲球赛的情况。“这球赛太难打了，”她说，“每个人都在吵个不停，球门和刺猬还总是走开。”

“你觉得王后怎么样？”猫静静地问。

“我不喜欢她，”爱丽丝答道。“她很——”正在这时，她看见王后就在她后面，所以她接着说，“——聪明。在这儿她球打得最好。”

王后笑着走了过去。

“你到底 在和谁说话？”国王问。他走到爱丽丝后面，看着猫的脑袋，觉得很奇怪。

“它是我的朋友——一只切舍猫。”爱丽丝说。

“我不知道我是否喜欢它，”国王说，但如果它喜欢可以摸摸我的手。”

“我宁愿不摸。”猫说。

“哼！”国王气坏了。他对王后喊到，“亲爱的！这儿有只猫，我不喜欢它。”

王后没回头。“砍掉它的脑袋！”她喊着，“把执行官叫来！”

爱丽丝有点替朋友担心，但等执行官来了，大家开始争执起来。

“我没法砍掉它的头，”执行官说，“如果没有身子，怎么砍头呢？”

“你能砍，”国王说，“只要有头你就能砍。”

“如果有人不赶快做事，”王后说，“我就把每个人的头都砍掉。”

没有人喜欢这个计划，他们都转向爱丽丝。“那么你 说怎么办？”他们喊道。

“猫是公爵夫人的，”爱丽丝小心翼翼地说，“也许你们该问问她 怎么办。”

“她在监狱里，”王后对执行官说，“把她立刻带到这儿来。”

但这时猫的头开始慢慢地消失，等执行官带着公爵夫人回来时，那儿已经什么都没有了。国王狂燥地跑来跑去找猫，公爵夫人抱着爱丽丝。“我真高兴又见到了你，亲爱的！”她说。

“我们接着打球。”王后气呼呼地说，于是爱丽丝跟着她走回槌球场。

球赛接着进行，可王后总是与别人争吵，大喊“砍掉他的脑袋！”或者“砍掉她的脑袋！”只一会儿就没有弓形球门了，因为士兵们（也就是球门）忙着把大家抓到监狱里去。最后只剩下三个人了——国王，王后和爱丽丝。

王后不喊了，对爱丽丝说：“你见到充海龟了吗？”

“没有，”爱丽丝说，“我不知道充海龟是什么。”

“那么跟我来。”王后说。

他们在海边发现了充海龟。充海龟旁边是鹰头翼狮，它正晒太阳睡觉呢。王后快步走开了，说：“我还得去执行那些死刑呢。”

鹰头翼狮醒来了，迷迷糊糊地对爱丽丝说，“只是说说而已，你该知道。他们从不真地砍谁的脑袋。”

爱丽丝听了这个很高兴。她有点害怕鹰头翼狮和充海龟，因为他们个子很大。但他们很友好，唱着歌，还给她讲他们生活中的故事。充甲鱼的一首十分悲伤的歌正唱到一半时，有个声音从远处传来：“开始！”

“快来！我们得快点！”鹰头翼狮喊到。它拽上爱丽丝就跑了起来。





7　Who stole the tarts?


　Who stole the tarts?

The King and Queen of Hearts were sitting on their thrones when Alice and the Gryphon arrived. There was a great crowd of birds and animals, and all the pack of cards.

Soldiers stood all around the Knave of Hearts, and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand.

In the middle of the room there was a table, with a large plate of tarts on it. 'They look good,' thought Alice, who was feeling a little hungry.

Then the White Rabbit called out loudly, 'Silence! The trial of the Knave of Hearts will now begin!' He took out a long piece of paper, and read:

The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,

All on a summer day.

The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,

And took them all away.

'Very good,' said the King. 'Call the first witness.'

Alice looked at the jury, who were now writing everything down. It was a very strange jury. Some of the jurymen were animals, and the others were birds.

Then the White Rabbit blew his trumpet three times, and called out, 'First witness!'

The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other hand. 'I'm very sorry, Your Majesty,' he said. 'I was in the middle of tea when the trial began.'

'Take off your hat,' the King said.

'It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

'Stolen! Write that down,' the King said to the jury.

'I keep hats to sell,' explained the Hatter. 'I don't have a hat myself. I'm a Hatter.'

'Give your evidence,' said the King, 'or we'll cut your head off.'

The Hatter's face turned white. 'I'm a poor man, Your Majesty,' he began, in a shaking voice.

Just then Alice had a strange feeling. After a minute or two she understood what it was.

'Don't push like that,' said the Dormouse, who was sitting next to her. 'I'm nearly falling off my seat.'

'I'm very sorry,' Alice said politely. 'I'm getting bigger and taller, you see.'

'Well, you can't do that here,' said the Dormouse crossly, and he got up and moved to another seat.

The Hatter was still giving evidence, but nobody could understand a word of it. The King looked at the Queen, and the Queen looked at the executioner.

The unhappy Hatter saw this, and dropped his bread-and-butter. 'I'm a poor man, Your Majesty,' he said again.

'You're a very poor speaker ,' said the King. He turned to the White Rabbit. 'Call the next witness,' he said.

The next witness was the Duchess's cook, who spoke very angrily and said that she would not give any evidence. The King looked worried and told the White Rabbit to call another witness. Alice watched while the White Rabbit looked at the names on his piece of paper. Then, to her great surprise, he called out loudly, 'Alice!'

'Here!' cried Alice, jumping to her feet.

'What do you know about these tarts?' said the King.

'Nothing,' said Alice.

The Queen was looking hard at Alice. Now she said, 'All people a mile high must leave the room.'

'I'm not a mile high,' said Alice. 'And I won't leave the room. I want to hear the evidence.'

'There is no more evidence,' said the King very quickly,

'and now the jury will —'

'Your Majesty!' said the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry. 'We've just found this letter. There's no name on it, but I think the Knave wrote it.'

'No, I didn't!' said the Knave loudly.

'Read it to us,' said the King.

'Where shall I begin, Your Majesty?' asked the Rabbit.

'Begin at the beginning,' said the King, 'and go on until you get to the end, then stop.'

Everybody listened very carefully while the White Rabbit read these words.

They tell me you have been to her,

And talked of me to him.

She thought I was a gardener,

But said I could not swim.

He tells them that I have not gone,

(We know that this is true).

If she decides to hurry on,

What will they do to you?

I gave her one, they gave him two,

You gave us three or more.

They all returned from him to you,

But they were mine before.

'That's a very important piece of evidence,' said the King. He looked very pleased. 'Now the jury must —'

'If anybody in the jury can explain that letter,' said Alice (she was not afraid of anything now, because she was much bigger than everybody in the room), 'I'll give him sixpence. It's all nonsense! It doesn't mean anything.'

The jury busily wrote this down. 'She thinks it's all nonsense.'

'All nonsense, eh?' said the King. He read some of the words again. 'But said I could not swim . You can't swim, can you?' he said to the Knave.

The Knave's face was sad. 'Do I look like a swimmer?' he said. (And he didn't — because he was made of paper.)

The King smiled. 'I understand everything now,' he said. 'There are the tarts, and here is the Knave of Hearts. And now the jury must decide who the thief is.'

'No, no!' said the Queen. 'Off with his head! The jury can say what it thinks later.'

'What nonsense!' said Alice loudly. 'The jury must decide first . You can't —'

'Be quiet!' said the Queen, her face turning red.

'I won't!' said Alice.

'Off with her head!' screamed the Queen. Nobody moved.

'It doesn't matter what you say,' said Alice. 'You're only a pack of cards!'

Then the pack of cards flew up into the sky and began to fall on Alice's face. She gave a little scream... and woke up. She was lying next to her sister under the trees, and some leaves were falling on her face.

'Wake up, Alice dear,' said her sister. 'You've been asleep a long time.'

'Oh, I've had a very curious dream!' said Alice, and she told her sister all about the strange adventures in her wonderful dream.

tart n. piece of pastry with fruit or jam on it. 果馅饼（面上有水果或果酱）。

tart

throne n. the ceremonial chair of a king, queen, etc. 御座；王位；宝座。

throne

trumpet n. sort of musical instrument that you blow. 喇叭；小号。

trumpet

trial n. examing someone in a law court to decide whether he has done a crime. 审问；审判。

trial

jury n. 陪审团。

jury

bread-and-butter 黄油面包。

bread-and-butter

evidence n. proof; something that shows what has happened and why it has happened. 证据；证明。

evidence

in a great hurry 马上；急急忙忙。

in a great hurry

found v. past tense & participle of find . find 的过去时和过去分词。（find 发现；寻得；找出。）

found

find

sixpence 六个便士。（在英国，penny 的复数pennies 是指硬币本身，而复数pence or P 是用来指金钱的数量。）

sixpence

nonsense n. speech, writing, thinking, behavior, etc., that is stupid. 胡说八道；胡思乱想；愚蠢的举动。

nonsense

woke v. past tense of wake. wake 的过去时。（wake v. to cease to sleep. 醒；醒来；醒着。）woke up. 醒来；醒过来。

woke

wake

adventure n. a journey, activity, experience, etc., that is strange, exciting, and often dangerous. 冒险的经历；奇遇。

adventure

wonderful adj. unusually good. 惊人的；极好的；精彩的。

wonderful





7 　谁偷了果馅饼？


当爱丽丝和鹰头翼狮赶到时，红桃国王和王后正坐在宝座上。那儿有一大群鸟儿和动物，还有所有的纸牌。

士兵们都站在红桃杰克周围，国王旁边站着白兔，手里拿着一个喇叭。

房子中间有一张桌子，上面摆了一大盘果馅饼。“看起来真不错！”爱丽丝心想，自己觉得有点饿了。

这时，白兔高声喊道：“肃静！对红桃杰克的审判现在开始！”他拿出一张长纸，念道：

在夏日里的一天，

红桃王后做了果馅饼。

红桃杰克，

偷走了所有的果馅饼。

“很好，”国王说，“传第一证人。”

爱丽丝看了看陪审团，他们正做着记录。这个陪审团奇怪极了，有些陪审员是动物，另外的一些是鸟儿。

白兔吹了三下喇叭，喊道：“传第一证人！”

第一证人是制帽人。他一手拿着茶杯，一手拿着一片黄油面包。“对不起，陛下，”他说，“审判开始时，我正在喝茶。”

“摘掉你的帽子。”国王说。

“帽子不是我的。”制帽人说。

“那就是偷的 ！记下来。”国王对陪审团说。

“我的帽子是要卖的。”制帽人解释着。“我自己一个帽子都没有。我是做帽子的。”

“把证据拿出来，”国王说，“要不然我们就砍了你的头。”

制帽人的脸都变白了。“我是个穷苦人，陛下。”他说道，声音都打颤了。

这时爱丽丝觉得很奇怪。过了一两分钟，她明白是怎么回事了。

“别推我，”睡鼠说，坐在爱丽丝旁边。“我都快从座位上掉下来了。”

“对不起，”爱丽丝礼貌地说，“你看，我变大了，也长高了。”

“好，可你在这儿 这样可不行，”睡鼠生气了，他站起来，坐到别的座位上。

制帽人还在做证，但没人听懂他在说什么。国王看着王后，王后看着执行官。

可怜的制帽人看到这些，面包片都掉下来了。“我是个穷苦人，陛下。”他又说。

“你连话都说不清 。”国王说。他转向白兔。“传下一个证人。”他说。

下一个证人是公爵夫人的厨子。她气呼呼地说不想做什么证。国王有点担心，于是让白兔传下一个证人。爱丽丝看着白免查看着那张纸。正在这时，让她大吃一惊的是，白兔大声喊道：“爱丽丝！”

“在这儿！”爱丽丝喊道，一下子跳了起来。

“你知道关于果馅饼的事吗？”国王问。

“一无所知。”爱丽丝说。

王后盯着爱丽丝。然后她说：“所有一英里高的人都得离开这个房间。”

“我没有一英里高，”爱丽丝说，“我也不离开这儿。我要听证词。”

“再也没有证词了，”国王马上说，“现在陪审团要——”

“陛下！”白兔马上跳了起来。“我们刚刚找到这封信。上面没有名字，我想是红桃杰克写的。”

“没有，我没写！”红桃杰克大声嚷道。

“念给我们听。”国王说。

“从哪儿开始，陛下？”白兔问。

“从头开始，”国王说，“念到结束停止。”

大家都仔细听白兔念。

他们告诉我你去过她那儿，

还向他提起了我。

她以为我是个园丁，

但说我不会游泳。

他告诉他们我还没有走，

（我们知道这是真的）。

如果她决定快点，

他们将把你怎么样？

我给她一个，他们给他两个，

你给我们三个以上。

他们都从他那儿回来去你那儿了，

但他们以前属于我。

“这证词非常重要，”国王说，他很高兴。“现在陪审团——”

“如果陪审团有谁能解释这封信，”爱丽丝说（她现在一点儿也不害怕，因为她现在比房间里任何一个人都大），“我就给他六个便士。纯粹是胡说八道！什么也说明不了。”

陪审团赶快把这也记下来。“她 认为这是胡说八道！”

“胡说八道，嗯？”国王说。他又读了一段。“但说我不会游泳 。你不会游泳，对吗？”他问红桃杰克。

红桃杰克脸上很悲伤。“我看起来像会游泳的吗？”他说。（他当然不会——他是纸做的。）

国王笑了起来。“我现在全懂了。”他说，“果馅饼在那儿，红桃杰克在这儿。现在陪审团必须决定谁是小偷。”

“不，不！”王后说，“砍掉他的头！陪审团以后再说它的决定。”

“胡说！”爱丽丝大声说，“陪审团必须先 做出决定。你不能——”

“闭嘴！”王后说，脸都气红了。

“我不！”爱丽丝说。

“砍掉她的头！”王后尖叫着。没有人动。

“你说的话没什么用，”爱丽丝说，“你们不过是一副纸牌！”

这时，所有的纸牌飞向天空，然后掉在爱丽丝的脸上她尖叫了一声……然后醒来了。她躺在树下，在姐姐身边，脸上有几片掉下来的树叶。

“醒醒，爱丽丝，亲爱的，”姐姐说，“你睡了这么久。”

“哦，我做了一个非常 奇怪的梦！”爱丽丝说，然后她给姐姐讲了自己在梦里的奇遇。





Exercises


A Checking your understanding

Chapters 1-2 How much can you remember? Check your answers.

Chapters 1-2

1 What did the White Rabbit take out of its pocket?

2 How high was the door into the beautiful garden?

3 What happened when Alice drank from the little bottle?

4 What did the White Rabbit drop in the long room?

5 Which animal did Alice meet in the pool of tears?

Chapters 3-4 Who or what in these chapters...

Chapters 3-4

1...was smoking a pipe on top of a mushroom?

2...told Alice that she was an egg thief?

3...invited the Duchess to play croquet?

4... turned into a pig?

5...didn't want to visit mad people?

6...vanished very slowly?

Chapters 5-6 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

Chapters 5-6

1 There was a pot of coffee on the March Hare's tea-table.

2 The Hatter's watch was two hours fast.

3 The March Hare and the Hatter tried to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

4 The hoops were always walking away from the croquet players.

5 When the Cheshire Cat appeared, its tail appeared first.

6 At the end of the game there were only three players left.

Chapter 7 Write answers to these questions.

Chapter 7

1 Who was the first witness at the trial of the Knave of Hearts?

2 What was happening to Alice during the trial?

3 What did the Queen want to do before the jury decided?

4 What happened when the pack of cards fell oil Alice's face?

B Working with language

1 Use these words to join the sentences together.

because　so　but　when

1 Alice followed the White Rabbit. It ran down a large rabbit-hole.

2 Alice could not get through the door into the garden. She was too big.

3 Alice ran and ran through the wood. She could not find the Rabbit's house anywhere.

4 The March Hare's house was large. Alice ate a piece of mushroom to get bigger.

2 Complete these sentences with information from the story.

1 The Hatter's watch was strange because...

2 When Alice saw a door in one of the trees in the wood,...

3 The King didn't like the Cheshire Cat, so the Queen...

4 Alice was not afraid of anything at the trial because...

C Activities

1 Which person or animal did you like best in the story? Why? Write a few lines to describe him or her.

2 You are Alice. Write a letter to a friend and describe your strange dream.

3 Imagine that you have had a strange and wonderful dream. In your dream you are an animal, a bird, or a fish. Choose what you would like to be, and then write a diary for a day, describing your life.

京权图字 01-97-0343

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 1995

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

格林-盖布尔斯的安妮：英汉对照／（加拿大）蒙哥马利（Montgomery, L. M.）著；（英）韦斯特（West, C.）改写；王海龙译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，1998.6（2014.3 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-1409-8

Ⅰ．格…　Ⅱ．①蒙…②韦…③王…　Ⅲ．英语—对照读物，文学—英、汉　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（1998）第07717号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 李　萌

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 1998年6月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-1409-8

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

简介

“胡萝卜！胡萝卜！”吉尔伯特·布莱思一边轻声叫着，一边从课桌后伸出手来拽安妮的红辫子梢。安妮从座位上跳起来叫道：“讨厌鬼！我恨你！”随后她用课本重重地打了他脑袋一下。

自从安妮·雪利住进卡斯伯特家以后，埃文利村的生活变得不再死气沉沉。他们本想收养一个男孩来帮忙料理格林-盖布尔斯的农活，可他们却得到了安妮——一个长有红发、雀斑且叽叽喳喳有说不完的话的女孩。她是个富于爱心的孩子，但她的麻烦却总是不断！先是林德太太的来访，然后是给教区牧师妻子的蛋糕，还有她的红头发……

经过在学校的争吵，她还会理睬吉尔伯特·布莱思吗？

露西·莫德·蒙哥马利1874年出生于加拿大，l942年去世。她幼时与祖父母居住在爱德华王子岛上一座破旧的农舍里。她的《格林-盖布尔斯的安妮》在全世界受到了欢迎，她还写了许多关于安妮·雪利的故事。

1A surprise for the Cuthberts

A surprise for the Cuthberts

Matthew Cuthbert lived with his sister Marilla on their farm on Prince Edward Island in Canada. Their farmhouse, Green Gables, was just outside the little village of Avonlea. Matthew was nearly sixty and had a long brown beard. His sister was five years younger. They were both tall and thin, with dark hair. Everybody in Avonlea knew that the Cuthberts were quiet people who worked very hard on their farm.

One afternoon Matthew drove the horse and cart to the station. 'Has the five-thirty train arrived yet?' he asked the station-master.

'Yes,' the man replied. 'And there's a passenger who's waiting for you. A little girl.'

'A little girl?' asked Matthew. 'But I've come for a boy! The children's home is sending us one of their orphan boys. We're going to adopt him, you see, and he's going to help me with the farm work.'

'Well, perhaps the children's home didn't have any boys, so they sent you a girl,' answered the stationmaster carelessly. 'Here she is.'

Matthew turned shyly to speak to the child. She was about eleven, with long red hair in two plaits. Her face was small, white and thin, with a lot of freckles, and she had large grey-green eyes. She was wearing an old brown hat and a dress which was too small for her.

'Are you Mr Cuthbert of Green Gables?' she asked excitedly in a high, sweet voice. 'I'm very happy to come and live with you, and belong to you. I've never belonged to anyone, you see. The people at the children's home were very kind, but it's not very exciting to live in a place like that, is it?'

Matthew felt sorry for the child. How could he tell her that it was all a mistake? But he couldn't just leave her at the station. He decided to take her home with him. Marilla could explain the mistake to her.

He was surprised that he enjoyed the journey home. He was a quiet, shy man, and he didn't like talking himself. But today, he only had to listen, because the little girl talked and talked and talked. She told him all about herself while they drove along.

'My parents died when I was a baby, you know, and for the last three years I've had to work for my food. I've lived with three different families and looked after their children. So I've always been poor, and I haven't got any nice dresses! But I just imagine that I'm wearing the most beautiful blue dress, and a big hat with flowers on, and blue shoes, and then I'm happy! Do you imagine things sometimes.'

'Well, I... I... not often,' said Matthew.

They were now driving past some very old apple trees next to the road. The trees were full of sweet-smelling, snowy-white flowers. The little girl looked at them.

'Aren't the trees beautiful?' she said happily. 'But am I talking too much? Please tell me. I can stop if necessary, you know.'

Matthew smiled at her. 'You go on talking,' he answered. 'I like listening to you.'

When they arrived at Green Gables, Marilla came to the door to meet them. But when she saw the little girl, she cried in surprise, 'Matthew, who's that? Where's the boy?'

'The children's home has made a mistake,' he said unhappily, 'and sent a girl, not a boy.'

The child was listening carefully. Suddenly she put her head in her hands and began to cry.

'You—you don't want me!' she sobbed. 'Oh-oh! You don't want me because I'm not a boy!'

'Now, now, don't cry,' said Marilla kindly.

'Don't you understand? Oh! This is the worst thing that's happened to me in all my life!'

'Well, you can stay here, just for tonight,' said Marilla. 'Now, what's your name?'

The child stopped crying. 'Will you please call me Cordelia?' she asked.

'Call you Cordelia? Is that your name?'

'Well, no, it isn't, but it's a very beautiful name, isn't it? I like to imagine my name is Cordelia, because my real name is Anne Shirley—and that's not a very interesting name, is it?'

Marilla shook her head. 'The child has too much imagination,' she thought.

Later, when Anne was in bed, Marilla said to her brother, 'She must go back to the children's home tomorrow.'

'Marilla, don't you think...' began Matthew. 'she's a nice little thing, you know.'

'Matthew Cuthbert, are you telling me that you want to keep her?' asked Marilla crossly.

Matthew looked uncomfortable. 'Well, she's clever, and interesting, and—'

'But we don't need a girl!'

'But perhaps she needs us,' Matthew replied, surprisingly quickly for him. 'She's had a very unhappy life up to now, Marilla. She can help you in the house. I can get a boy from the village to help me on the farm. What do you think?'

Marilla thought for a long time. 'All right,' she said in the end, 'I agree. The poor child can stay. I'll look after her.'

Matthew smiled happily. 'Be as good and kind to her as you can, Marilla. I think she needs a lot of love.'

adopt vt. take (sb.) into one's family as a relation, esp. as a son or daughter, with legal guardianship 收养（某人）为养子或养女。

adopt

plait vt. weave or twist (three or more lengths of hair, straw, etc) under and over one another into one rope—like length 编（头发）成辫，编（草）为绳。

plait

belong v. belong to, be a member of, be connected with 为……之一员，已加入。

belong

journey n. a trip from one place to another, esp. over a long distance. 旅行，旅程。

journey

sob v. draw in the breath sharply and irregulary from sorrow or plain, esp while crying. 呜咽，啜泣。

sob

mistake n. something that you do or say wrongly. 错误，过失。

mistake

shake v. move quickly, from side to side, up and down, etc. 摇。

shake

crossly adv. easily or quickly showing anger. 脾气坏地，易怒地。

crossly

1 　卡斯伯特兄妹俩大吃一惊

马修·卡斯伯特和妹妹玛丽拉住在加拿大爱德华王子岛上他们的农场里。他们的农舍——格林-盖布尔斯，就在埃文利小村外。马修年近六旬，留着褐色的长胡子。妹妹玛丽拉比他小五岁。他俩身材瘦高，长着深色的头发。埃文利村的每一个人都知道，卡斯伯特兄妹是默默无闻、勤勤恳恳的庄户人。

一天下午，马修驾着马车来到火车站。“五点半的火车到了吗？”他向站长询问道。

“已经到了，”站长回答。“有一位乘客正在等您，是一个小姑娘。”

“小姑娘？”马修问道，“但我是来接一个小男孩！孤儿院给我们送来一个孤儿，我们准备收养他。你看，我还指望他帮忙干农活呢。”

“也许孤儿院没有男孩子，所以他们给你送来一个小姑娘，”站长漫不经心地答道，“她来了。”

马修讪讪地转过身去面对那孩子。女孩大约十一岁，梳着两条粗粗的红色发辫，长满雀斑的小脸又瘦又白，有一双灰绿色的大眼睛。她戴着一顶褐色的旧帽子，衣服已小得不合身了。

“您是格林-盖布尔斯的卡斯伯特先生吗？”她问道，嗓音清晰甜美。“我很高兴能来和你们生活在一起，成为您家的一员。您看，我还从来没有真正作过哪家的成员呢。孤儿院的人都很好，但住在那种地方一点也不好玩，不是吗？”

马修很同情这孩子。他怎么能告诉她这一切都搞错了？他总不能把女孩一个人留在火车站。他决定先把孩子带回家，让玛丽拉向小姑娘解释。

让马修感到吃惊的是，在回家的路上他感觉非常愉快。他是个沉默、腼腆、少言寡语的人。但今天，他只要听就足够了，因为这小姑娘不停地说呀，说呀，说呀。一路上她向马修讲述关于自己的一切。

“爸爸妈妈在我还很小的时候就去世了。您知道吗，过去这三年我不得不自己挣钱养活自己。我曾在三个家庭里照看过孩子。我总是很穷，一件漂亮衣服也没有。我总是想象自己正穿着最漂亮的蓝衣服，戴一顶插满花的大帽子，还有蓝色的鞋子，那时我多高兴啊！您也经常幻想吗？”

“这，我……我……偶尔。”马修答道。

这时马车经过路边的一排老苹果树。树上开满了雪白而芬芳的花朵。小女孩欣赏着。

“这些树多美呀！”她感叹道。“可我是不是说得太多了？如果是，请您告诉我。您知道，我会停止的。”

马修冲她笑笑答道：“你继续说吧，我喜欢听。”

当他们到格林-盖布尔斯的时候，玛丽拉到门口迎接他们。但当她看见小女孩时，她惊讶地叫道：“马修，她是谁？男孩在哪儿？”

“孤儿院弄错了，送来一个女孩，不是男孩。”他不高兴地说。

孩子先是仔细地听着，突然双手捂住脸哭了起来。

“你们——你们不要我！”她哭泣着。

“噢——噢！因为我不是男孩你们不要我了！”

“哦，别哭。”玛丽拉和蔼地说。

“您不理解吗？这是我一辈子遇到的最糟糕的事情！”

“那好吧，你可以待在这里，但只能一个晚上，”玛丽拉说。“你叫什么名字？”

孩子停止哭泣。“您能叫我科黛拉吗？”她问道。

“叫你科黛拉？那是你的名字吗？”

“不，不是的，但那名字很好听，不是吗？我喜欢幻想着我的名字叫科黛拉，因为我的真名叫安妮·雪利——那名字没什么意思，不是吗？”

玛丽拉摇摇头，“这孩子太爱幻想了。”她心里暗想。

稍晚些，等安妮睡着以后，玛丽拉对哥哥说：“明天这孩子必须回孤儿院去。”

“玛丽拉，你不认为……”马修说道，“这小家伙挺可爱的。”

“马修·卡斯伯特，你难道是想让她留下？”玛丽拉生气地说。

马修一副不知所措的样子。“可是，这小姑娘聪明、有趣，而且……”

“但我们不需要女孩！”

“但也许她需要我们，”马修的回答来得出奇地快。“玛丽拉，这孩子到现在为止生活一直很不幸。她可以帮助你干些家务活。我可以从镇上找一个男孩子帮我干农活。你觉得怎么样？”

玛丽拉想了很久。“好吧，”她终于说，“我同意。这可怜的孩子可以留下。我会照顾她的。”

马修高兴地笑了。“尽可能对她好些，玛丽拉。我想这孩子太需要人疼爱了。”

2At Green Gables

At Green Gables

And so the next morning Marilla said, 'Well, Anne, Matthew and I have decided to keep you, only if you're a good girl, of course. Why, child, what's the matter?'

'I'm crying,' sobbed Anne, 'because I'm very happy! It's beautiful here! People say I'm very bad, but I'll try very hard to be good. Oh, thank you! Thank you!'

'Now stop crying, child,' said Marilla a little crossly, 'and listen. We're going to adopt you, and send you to school after the summer holidays.'

Anne stopped crying. 'Can I call you Aunt Marilla? I've never had any family at all, so I'd really like to have an aunt. We could imagine that you're my mother's sister.'

'I couldn't,' answered Marilla firmly.

'Don't you imagine things?' asked Anne, surprised.

'No, I don't,' Marilla replied. 'I do my housework, and look after Matthew, and go to church on Sunday. There's no time for imagining things in this house. Just remember that, Anne.'

Anne was silent for a few minutes. Then she said, 'Marilla, do you think I'll find a best friend in Avonlea? Someone who really understands me and knows all my secrets. I've always wanted a friend like that.'

'Our friends, the Barrys, have a daughter called Diana, who's eleven, like you. But if you want to play with her, you'll have to be very good. Mrs Barry is very careful about Diana's friends.'

'Diana! What a beautiful name!' said Anne excitedly. 'Her hair isn't red, is it? I hope it isn't.' She looked sadly at her red plaits. 'I hate my hair.'

'Diana has dark hair. She's a good, clever girl. Try to be like her, Anne.'

When the two girls met, they knew at once that they would be good friends. They often played together, in the fields, or by the river, or in the garden. In the morning Anne helped Marilla with the housework. Then in the afternoon she played with Diana, or talked happily to Matthew while he worked on the farm. She soon knew and loved every flower, tree, and animal at Green Gables.

The Cuthberts had another friend, Mrs Rachel Lynde. She liked to know everything that was happening in and around Avonlea. She was very interested in the Cuthberts' little orphan girl, so one day she visited Marilla.

'I was very surprised to hear about the child,' she told Marilla. 'So you and Matthew have adopted her!'

'I'm surprised myself,' answered Marilla with a smile. 'But she's a clever little thing, you know. And she's always dancing, or singing, or laughing.'

Mrs Lynde shook her head sadly. 'What a mistake, Marilla! You've never had any children yourself, so how can you look after her?'

Just then Anne ran in from the garden. She stopped suddenly when she saw a stranger in the kitchen. Mrs Lynde looked at the thin little girl in the short dress, with her freckled face and red hair.

'Isn't she thin, Marilla?' she said. 'Just look at those freckles! And hair as red as carrots!'

Anne's face went red. She ran up to Mrs Lynde.

'I hate you!' she shouted angrily. 'I hate you! You're a horrible, fat old woman!' And she ran upstairs.

'Oh dear, oh dear!' said Mrs Lynde. 'What a terrible child! You'll not have an easy time with her, Marilla.'

'You were rude to her, Rachel,' Marilla replied, before she could stop herself.

'Well!' said Mrs Lynde. She got up and walked to the door. 'I think this orphan is more important to you than I am. When I think how long we've been friends... You'll have trouble with her, I can tell you. Well, I'm sorry for you, that's all. Goodbye.'

Marilla went upstairs to Anne's room. The child was lying on her narrow bed, sobbing loudly.

'You mustn't get angry like that, Anne. Mrs Lynde is my friend, and you were very rude to her.'

'She was rude to me !' said Anne. 'She said I was thin and freckled and red-haired. It was very unkind!'

'I understand how you feel,' said Marilla. 'But you must go to her and tell her you re sorry.'

'I can never do that,' said Anne firmly.

'Then you must stay in your room and think about it. You can come out when you agree to say that you're sorry.'

Anne stayed in her room all the next day. Downstairs the house was very quiet without her. That evening, while Marilla was busy in the garden, Matthew went up to Anne's room. The child was sitting sadly by the window.

'Anne,' he said shyly, 'why don't you say you're sorry? Then you can come down, and we can all be happy.'

'I am sorry now,' said Anne. 'I was very angry yesterday! But do you really want me to...'

'Yes, do, please. It's lonely downstairs without you. But don't tell Marilla I've talked to you.'

Marilla was pleased to hear that Anne was sorry. Later that evening, when she and Anne were in Mrs Lynde's warm kitchen, Anne suddenly fell on her knees.

'Oh Mrs Lynde,' cried the little girl, 'I'm very sorry. I can't tell you how sorry I am, so you must just imagine it. I am a bad girl! But please say you will forgive me. I'll be sad all my life if you don't!'

'She's enjoying herself!' thought Marilla, watching Anne's face. 'She doesn't look sorry at all, but happy and excited!'

But Mrs Lynde said kindly, 'Of course I forgive you.' And later she said to Marilla, 'Perhaps you're right to keep her. She's a strange little thing, but I think I like her.'

silent adj. saying nothing, giving no answer. 不作声，不答腔。

silent

secret n. something that you do not tell other people. 秘密，机密。

secret

hate v. feel that someone or something is very bad. 嫌恶。

hate

orphan n. child whose parents are dead. 孤儿。

orphan

freckle v. (cause to) become covered with small light—brown spots on the human skin. 长雀斑或斑点。

freckle

downstairs adv. to or on a lower floor of a building 在楼下；往楼下

downstairs

2 　在格林－盖布尔斯

第二天早上，玛丽拉说：“好吧，安妮，马修和我已经决定将你留下，当然，你必须听话。怎么了，孩子，发生什么事了？”

“我在哭，”安妮抽泣着说道，“因为我非常高兴！这里很漂亮！大家说我很淘气，但我会尽力做一个好孩子。哦，太感谢你们了！谢谢！”

玛丽拉有些不快地说：“别哭了，孩子。听着，我们将收养你，暑假后还要把你送到学校去。”

安妮停止了哭泣。“我能叫您玛丽拉姨妈吗？我从来没有过家，所以我特别想有一个姨妈。我们可以将您想象成我的姨妈。”

“我无法那样想象。”玛丽拉坚定地说。

“您从来也不幻想吗？”安妮惊讶地问道。

“不，从来不。”玛丽拉回答，“我要做家务，照顾马修，周日还要去教堂。在这家里没有时间去幻想。记住这一点，安妮。”

安妮沉默了一会。然后说道：“玛丽拉，我在埃文利会找到一个好朋友吗？一个真正理解我，知道我所有秘密的朋友。我一直想要一个那样的朋友。”

“我们的朋友巴里家里有一个小姑娘叫戴安娜，她今年十一岁，与你同岁。但是如果你想和她一起玩，就必须非常乖。巴里太太对戴安娜交什么样的朋友要求很严。”

“戴安娜！多好听的名字！”安妮兴奋地说，“她的头发不是红色的吧？我希望不是。”她伤心地看着她的红发辫。“我恨我的头发。”

“戴安娜长着黑色的头发，她是个聪明乖巧的姑娘。多向她学吧，安妮。”

两个小姑娘初次见面，立刻就知道她们会成为好朋友。她们经常在田野、小河或花园边一起玩耍。早晨安妮帮助玛丽拉料理家务。下午和戴安娜一起玩，或者与在地里干活的马修高兴地聊天。很快她就认识并爱上了格林-盖布尔斯的每一种鲜花、树木和动物。

雷切尔·林德太太是卡斯伯特家的另一个朋友。她喜欢打听发生在埃文利村及其周围的一切事情。她对卡斯伯特家收养的小孤女很感兴趣，因此有一天她特意来拜访玛丽拉。

“听到小女孩的事我很吃惊，”她告诉玛丽拉，“那么你们已经收养她了！”

“我自己也很吃惊，”玛丽拉笑着答道，“但你知道，她是个小机灵鬼。总是唱啊、跳啊、笑啊。”

林德太太难过地摇摇头。“玛丽拉，你犯了一个大错误。你自己从没有过孩子，怎么能照顾她呢？”

这时安妮从花园里跑进来。当她看到厨房里的陌生人时突然停了下来。林德太太看着这个穿着短小衣服长着红色头发和一脸雀斑的瘦弱女孩。

“她多瘦啊。玛丽拉。”她说，“看她那些雀斑！还有像胡萝卜一样红的头发！”

安妮的脸红了。她跑向林德太太。

“我恨你！”她生气地喊道，“我恨你！你是个可怕的胖老太婆！”说完跑上楼去。

“天哪，天哪！”林德太太说道，“多可怕的孩子！你就甭想省心了，玛丽拉。”

“你对她太粗鲁了，雷切尔。”玛丽拉忍不住脱口而出。

“好吧！”林德太太说。她站起身走到门边。“我想这孤儿对你来说比我重要，虽然我们已是多年的朋友……这孩子会给你找麻烦的，我敢保证。好吧，我只想说我为你感到难过，再见吧。”

玛丽拉来到楼上安妮的房间里。孩子正躺在她窄小的床上，大声地哭泣。

“你没必要那么生气，安妮。林德太太是我的朋友，而且你对她太没礼貌了。”

“是她先对我失礼的！”安妮争辩道，“她说我瘦小枯干还长着雀斑和红头发。这也太刻薄了！”

“我理解你的感受，”玛丽拉说道，“但你必须到林德太太家向她道歉。”

“我不能那么做。”安妮斩钉截铁地回答。

“那么你只能待在你的房间里好好想一想。直到你同意去道歉才能出来。”

第二天，安妮整日待在自己的房间里。没有了安妮，楼下的房间里非常安静。那天晚上，玛丽拉在花园里忙碌着，马修来到楼上安妮的房间。孩子正神情忧郁地坐在窗前。

“安妮，”他有些难为情地说道，“你为什么不肯道歉呢？那样你就可以下楼去，我们大家都可以高高兴兴的了。”

“我现在感到后悔了，”安妮说，“昨天我太生气了！可您真想让我去……”

“是的，去道个歉吧。楼下没有你太冷清了。但别告诉玛丽拉我和你谈过。”

玛丽拉听到安妮愿意道歉非常高兴。那天晚上，当玛丽拉和安妮在林德太太温暖的厨房里时，安妮突然跪了下去。

“哦，林德太太，”小女孩抽泣着，“我非常对不起您。我说不出我有多后悔，所以只能请您想象一下。我是个坏女孩！但请您告诉我您已经原谅我了。如果您不原谅我，我一辈子都会很难过的！”

“这孩子好像还挺喜欢这样做的！”玛丽拉看着安妮的表情暗想，“她看上去一点也不难过，倒是有一点高兴和兴奋！”

但是林德太太和蔼地说道：“我当然原谅你。”后来她对玛丽拉说：“也许你让她留下是对的。这小家伙有些特别，但我想我挺喜欢她。”

3At Avonlea school

At Avonlea school

When school started in September, Anne and Diana walked there and back together every day.

'What a beautiful day,' Anne said happily one morning, as the two little girls walked across the fields. 'I'm very lucky to have you as my best friend, Diana. You are my best friend, aren't you?'

'Of course, Anne,' replied Diana, taking Anne's hand. 'And just think, today you'll meet Gilbert Blythe. He's three years older than us, and very good-looking. He's just come back from holiday, and starts school today.'

'Oh, boys!' said Anne. 'I'm not interested in them .'

But she did look at Gilbert when they arrived at school. He was a tall boy, with curly brown hair and a friendly smile.

'He is good-looking,' Anne whispered to Diana, 'but why does he smile at me? He doesn't know me!'

Avonlea school was quiet that day. The teacher, Mr Phillips, was helping some of the older children at the back of the schoolroom. Anne was looking out of the window at the reds and yellows of the trees, and the silvery blue of the river. She was far away in the world of her imagination. But Gilbert wanted her to look at him. He whispered to her, but she did not move. He was surprised. Girls were usually very ready to look at him.

Suddenly he put his arm out, pulled her red plaits, and said in a loud whisper, 'Carrots! Carrots!'

Anne jumped up and looked angrily at Gilbert.

'You horrible boy!' she cried. 'I hate you!' And then she brought her heavy book down on Gilbert's head.

Mr Phillips heard the noise, and came slowly to the front of the schoolroom.

'Anne Shirley, why did you do that?' he asked. She stayed silent. Gilbert said, 'I'm sorry, Mr Phillips. I was rude to her. That's why she hit me.' But the teacher did not listen to Gilbert.

'I cannot have bad children in my school,' said Mr Phillips firmly. 'Aane, go and stand in front of the class.' And there Anne stood for the rest of the day, a lonely little girl with a small white angry face.

'I hate Mr Phillips!' she thought. 'And I'll never look at or speak to Gilbert Blythe again!'

The next day some of the school children were playing in a farmer's field in their lunch hour, so they were a little late for afternoon school. Anne ran into the classroom at the same time as the boys, just after the teacher.

'You're late, Anne,' said Mr Phillips. 'You won't sit with Diana today. I see that you enjoy being with the boys very much, so go and sit next to Gilbert this afternoon.'

Anne's face went white. 'He can't mean it!' she thought.

'Did you hear me, Anne?' asked Mr Phillips.

'Yes sir,' said Anne and moved slowly to Gilbert's desk. There she sat down and put her head on the desk, with her arms over it.

'This is the end,' she was thinking. 'I wasn't the only person who was late. And he's sent me to sit with a boy ! And that boy is Gilbert Blythe!'

The rest of the day went very slowly for Anne. When it was time to leave, she went to her desk, next to Diana's, and took all her books, pens and pencils with her.

'What are you doing, Anne?' asked Diana.

'I'm not coming back to school,' replied Anne firmly.

'Oh! But Anne... we're reading a new book next week... and we're playing a new game on Monday, and... It'll be very exciting! And you'll miss it, Anne!'

But Anne was not interested. 'I'm sorry, Diana,' was her only answer.

That evening Marilla ran round to Rachel Lynde's house. 'Rachel, please help me! Anne says she won't go back to school. What am I going to say to her?'

Mrs Lynde already knew about Anne's troubles at school, and she was always very pleased when people asked her to help. She smiled and sat back comfortably.

'I've had ten children myself, so I know all about them,' she said. 'Anne can stay at home for a while. She'll want to go back to school again soon, I'm sure.'

So Anne stayed at home, and only saw Diana in the evenings. She was a child who felt very strongly. She hated Gilbert Blythe, but she really loved Diana.

One evening Marilla found Anne crying in the kitchen. 'What's the matter, child?' she asked in surprise.

'I love Diana very much,' sobbed Anne. 'I can't live without her, Marilla! But what will happen when she marries? I hate her husband already! I can imagine her in the church in her long white dress... and then she'll go away! And I'll never see her again!'

Marilla turned away to hide her smiling face. What a strange, funny child Anne was! Marilla tried not to laugh, but she couldn't stop herself.

'You and your imagination, Anne Shirley!' she cried, and she laughed and laughed.

Mrs Lynde was right, of course. After a few days Anne decided to go back to school. All the children were pleased to see her again, but she did not speak to Gilbert Blythe.

curly adj. having curls, arranged in curls. 有卷发的，卷曲的。

curly

silvery adj. like silver. 似银的。

silvery

horrible adj. very bad 极讨厌的

horrible

firmly adv. showing that you will make people do what you want. 坚决地。

firmly

hide v. be in a secret place, put something in a secret place. 隐藏，把…藏起来。

hide

3 　在埃文利学校

九月，学校开学了，安妮和戴安娜每天一起步行上学放学。

一天清晨，当两个小姑娘穿过田野的时候，安妮感叹道：“多美的一天啊！戴安娜，我有你这样一位好朋友真幸运。你就是 我最好的朋友，不是吗？”

“当然了，安妮。”戴安娜握住安妮的手回答道。“想想看，今天你就要见到吉尔伯特·布莱思了。他比我们大三岁，长得可帅了。今天他刚刚度完假回学校上学。”

“噢，男孩子！”安妮说道，“我对他们不感兴趣。”

但当她们到达学校的时候，安妮还是打量了吉尔伯特一下。他是个长着鬈曲的棕色头发的高个男孩，脸上挂着友善的微笑。

“他长得确实很帅，”安妮小声对戴安娜说，“但他为什么冲我笑？他根本不认识我！”

埃文利学校那天非常平静。学校的教师，菲利普斯先生在教室后面辅导一些大孩子。安妮欣赏着窗外红黄相间的树木和波光粼粼的蓝色小河。她已经被自己的幻想带到了遥远的地方。但吉尔伯特希望她注意自己。他对她低语，但她一动不动。他很惊讶。女孩们通常都很愿意注意他。

他忽然伸出手去，拽住她的红色发辫，一边轻声叫着，“胡萝卜！胡萝卜！”

安妮从座位上跳起来瞪着吉尔伯特。

“讨厌鬼！我恨你！”她一边叫，一边用重重的课本打了他脑袋一下。

菲利普先生听到了这边的动静，缓缓地从教室后面走了过来。

“安妮·雪利，你为什么那样做？”他问道。安妮一言不发。吉尔伯特答道：“我很抱歉，菲利普斯先生。是我对她无礼的，所以她打我。”但老师没有听吉尔伯特的解释。

“我不能允许学校里有坏孩子，”菲利普斯先生斩钉截铁地说，“安妮，去站在全班同学的面前。”那天安妮就一直孤零零地站在那儿，一张小脸气得煞白。

“我恨菲利普斯先生！”她想。“我再也不理吉尔伯特·布莱思了！”

第二天午饭的时候，一些学生在一个农夫的田里玩耍，因此下午上课时他们迟到了一会儿。安妮和男生们一起跟在老师的后面进了教室。

“你迟到了，安妮，”菲利普斯先生说，“今天你不能和戴安娜坐在一起，我发现你很喜欢和男孩子们一起，今天下午你去和吉尔伯特坐在一起吧．”

安妮的脸变白了。“他不会是认真的！”她想。

“你听见我说的话了吗，安妮？”菲利普斯先生问道。

“是的，先生。”安妮边回答边慢慢地挪到了吉尔伯特的书桌旁。她坐下来，头埋在手臂里趴在书桌上。

安妮想：“这下全完了。我不是唯一一个迟到的学生。可他竟然让我坐在一个男孩旁边！而这男孩竟是吉尔伯特·布莱思！”

对于安妮来说，那天过得很慢。等到了放学的时候，她回到了戴安娜旁边自己的座位上，从自己的课桌里取出了课本、钢笔和铅笔。

“你干什么，安妮？”戴安娜问道。

“我不会再回学校里来了。”安妮坚定地回答。

“噢！可是安妮……下周我们就要读一本新书……星期一我们还要玩一个新游戏，还有……在学校里会很有趣！你会错过这些的，安妮！”

但安妮对戴安娜所说的都不感兴趣。只是回答道：“对不起，戴安娜。”

那天晚上，玛丽拉来到了雷切尔·林德家里。“雷切尔，请帮帮我！安妮说她不肯再回学校了。我该怎么说服她？”

林德太太已经听说了安妮在学校的麻烦，她总是很高兴有人请她帮忙。她微笑着靠在舒适的椅背上。

“我自己有10个孩子，所以我对孩子很了解，”她说。“可以让安妮先在家里待一段时间。很快她就会想回到学校去的，我敢肯定。”

这样安妮就留在家里，每天晚上才能见到戴安娜。她是个爱憎分明的孩子。她恨吉尔伯特·布莱思，而又确实喜欢戴安娜，

一天晚上，玛丽拉发现安妮在厨房里哭泣。“怎么了，孩子？”她惊讶地问道。

“我非常喜欢戴安娜，”安妮抽泣着说。“我的生活中不能没有她，玛丽拉！但如果她结婚会怎么样？我已经开始恨她的丈夫了！我可以想象到戴安娜穿着长长的婚纱在教堂里……然后她就要走了！我就再也见不到她了！”

玛丽拉转过身去偷偷地笑了。安妮真是个既奇怪又有趣的孩子！玛丽拉尽力想止住笑，但还是忍不住。

“你和你的幻想，安妮·雪利。”她大声说，说完笑个不停。

当然，林德太太说的是对的，几天后，安妮决定回到学校去。看到她回来所有的孩子都很高兴，但安妮还是不理睬吉尔伯特·布莱思。

4More trouble for Anne

More trouble for Anne

'I think I'll ask the new vicar, Mr Allan, and his wife to tea on Wednesday,' said Marilla one day.

'Oh yes, please do!' cried Anne excitedly. 'Mrs Allan is young and beautiful, and has a very sweet smile! Can I make a cake for tea? Say yes, Marilla!'

Marilla agreed, and for the next few days Anne planned what she would put in her cake.

'I do hope it's going to be a good one,' she told Diana. 'Sometimes I forget to put in the right things.'

'You made a very good one last week,' said her friend. 'I'm sure it'll be all right.'

On Wednesday the tea party started very well.

'These are very good cakes, Miss Cuthbert,' Mrs Allan said to Marilla. 'You have been busy.'

'Anne made this one, specially for you, Mrs Allan,' replied Marilla.

'Oh well, I must try some,' laughed the vicar's wife. But after the first mouthful there was a very strange look on her face.

'Is anything wrong?' asked Marilla. She ate a piece of Anne's cake herself. 'Oh! Anne! What have you put in this cake?' she cried.

'Isn't it...isn't it all right?' asked Anne, her face red.

'All right? It's horrible! Don't try to eat any more, Mrs Allan. Anne, you've put my medicine in this cake!'

'Oh! I didn't know! It was white, and in a bottle! I thought it was milk!' sobbed Anne. She ran upstairs and fell on her bed, crying loudly.

But later that evening, when Mr and Mrs Allan went home, Marilla came to talk to her.

'Oh Marilla!' cried Anne. 'Everybody in Avonlea will laugh at me for putting medicine in a cake!'

Marilla smiled and touched Anne's hot face. 'No, they won't, Anne. Mrs Allan wasn't angry, you know. She said it was very kind of you to make her a cake, and she's asked you to tea at her house!'

'Oh, so she's forgiven me! She is nice, isn't she?' said Anne thankfully. 'Why do I get into trouble like this? Perhaps I won't make any mistakes tomorrow.'

Marilla shook her head, still smiling. 'You'll think of something, Anne. You're very good at making mistakes!'

*　　*　　*

Spring came, with its bright green leaves and early flowers. One April evening Marilla came home late after visiting friends. She found the kitchen empty, and no supper on the table.

'Where's Anne?' she thought crossly. 'I told her to get the supper ready.' She hurried upstairs to Anne's room, and found the girl sobbing on her bed.

'Don't look at me, Marilla!' Anne cried. 'I know I'm bad, I know I am!'

'What is the matter?' asked Marilla. 'Are you ill?'

'Oh Marilla, I just want to die! Look at my hair !'

And Marilla saw that Anne's long thick red hair was now a horrible dark green.

'Oh Anne!' she said, 'What have you done now?'

'I...I bought a bottle of something special from a man who came to the door. He said it would change my hair from red to black! Oh, I know it was stupid of me! But what shall I do?'

They washed Anne's hair again and again, but it was still green. Anne stayed at home for a week, saw nobody, and washed her hair every day. But at the end of the week, Marilla said, 'I'm sorry, Anne, we'll have to cut it all off. You can't go to school with green hair.'

Anne had to agree. 'Perhaps this will teach me not to think about being beautiful,' she said sadly.

Everybody was surprised to see Anne with very short hair, but no one learned the secret. And some weeks later, there were some new, darker red curls, which pleased Anne very much.

*　　*　　*

That summer Anne and her friends often played in an old boat on the river.

'Today, let's imagine that I'm a prisoner and I'm escaping from prison by boat,' said Anne. 'I'll hide in the boat and the river will carry it down to the bridge. You're my family, and you must meet me at the bridge.'

The other girls agreed, so Anne got into the boat and hid under some coats. Her friends pushed the boat off down the river and ran across the fields to get round to the bridge. For a few minutes the prisoner enjoyed the game, but then she suddenly felt wet and sat up. Water was coming in very fast through a hole in the bottom of the boat! Luckily, there were some trees by the river and Anne saw a low branch over the water. She jumped up and caught the branch. The boat went on without her and a few seconds later went down under the water.

Her friends on the bridge saw the boat, but they did not see Anne under the tree. 'Oh! Oh! Anne's dead! The boat's gone down and she's in the river!' they screamed, and ran back to the village for help.

Poor Anne could not move. She held on and held on, but her arms were getting tired and she knew that she would fall in a minute. Suddenly, there was Gilbert Blythe in his boat!

'Anne Shirley!' he cried. 'What are you doing there?' He did not wait for an answer, but quickly helped Anne into his boat. She didn't say a word. When they arrived at the bridge, she got out and turned away.

'Thank you for helping me,' she said coldly.

But Gilbert jumped out, and put a hand on her arm.

'Anne,' he said quickly,' I'm sorry I called you "carrots." It was a long time ago. I think your hair is really nice now. Can we forget it, and be friends?'

For a second Anne wanted to say yes. But then she remembered standing alone in front of the school children all afternoon, because of Gilbert. She would never forgive him for that! 'No,' she replied coldly, 'I shall never be your friend, Gilbert Blythe!'

'All right!' Gilbert jumped angrily back into his boat. 'I'll never ask you again, Anne Shirley!'

Anne walked home with her head held high, but she felt strangely sad, and wanted to cry.

'Why are you always in trouble, Anne?' asked Marilla, when she heard about Anne's adventure.

'Well, I think I'm learning, Marilla,' answered Anne. 'I learn from my mistakes, and after today, I won't use my imagination so much. I don't think Avonlea is the right place for imagination.'

'No, it isn't,' agreed Marilla a little crossly.

When she went out, Matthew, who was sitting quietly in his corner, whispered to Anne, 'Keep a little imagination, Anne, not too much, of course, just a little.'

vicar n. priest in the Church of England. 教区牧师。

vicar

mouthful n. as much as you can put into your mouth at one time. 一口，满口。

mouthful

crossly adv. easily or quickly showing anger. 脾气坏地，易怒地。

crossly

horrible adj. very bad. 糟透的。

horrible

imagine v. have a picture of something in one's mind. 想象；设想。

imagine

branch n. arm-like division of a tree. 树枝。

branch

turn away turn in a different direction so as not to face sb／sth. 转脸而不面对某人或某物。

turn away

adventure n. strange or unusual happening. 奇遇；冒险的经历。

adventure

whisper v. speak very softly. 低语。

whisper

4 　安妮还有更多的麻烦

一天，玛丽拉说：“星期三，我打算请新来的牧师阿伦先生和他的太太来喝茶。”

“那太好了，请他们来吧！”安妮兴奋地叫道，“阿伦太太年轻漂亮，笑起来可甜了！我能为他们做块茶点蛋糕吗？答应吧，玛丽拉！”

玛丽拉同意了。在以后的几天里，安妮盘算着在蛋糕里放些什么。

“我真希望蛋糕会好吃，”她对戴安娜说，“但有时我会忘了应该放些什么。”

“上星期你做的蛋糕很不错，”戴安娜回答道，“我想这次也不会有问题的。”

星期三到了，下午茶聚会开始得很顺利。

“蛋糕看上去很不错，卡斯伯特小姐，”阿伦太太对玛丽拉说，“把您忙 坏了吧。”

“这蛋糕是安妮 特意为您做的，阿伦太太。”玛丽拉回答道。

“噢，是吗，我一定要尝尝。”牧师太太笑道。但当她尝了一口之后，脸上出现了一种奇怪的表情。

“有什么不妥吗？”玛丽拉问。她自己也吃了一块安妮做的蛋糕。“噢！安妮！你在这蛋糕里放 了些什么？”她叫道。

“难道……难道不好吃吗？”安妮红着脸问。

“好吃？简直是难以下咽！阿伦太太，别再硬往下压了。安妮，你把我的药放进蛋糕里了。”

“噢！我不知道！它是白色的，放在一个瓶子里！我以为是牛奶！”安妮边哭边说。她跑上楼，趴在床上大声哭了起来。

那天晚上，阿伦先生和太太回家以后，玛丽拉来劝安妮。

“唉，玛丽拉！”安妮抽泣着说，“埃文利村的每一个人都会嘲笑我把药放在蛋糕里！”

玛丽拉微笑着摸了摸安妮滚烫的小脸。“不，他们不会的，安妮。你知道吗？阿伦太太没有生气。她说很感激你为她做了一个蛋糕，她还邀请你去她家喝茶呢！”

“真的吗，那么说她原谅我了！她真 好，不是吗？”安妮充满感激地说，“我怎么会遇到这样的麻烦？也许我明天不会再犯错误了。”

玛丽拉面带微笑，摇了摇头。“你还会想出其他点子的，安妮。你是个闯祸专家！”

*　　*　　*

春天来了，嫩绿的树叶和早开的花儿挂上了枝头。四月的一个黄昏，玛丽拉探望朋友很晚才回家。她发现厨房里一个人也没有，餐桌上也没有晚餐。

“安妮去哪儿了？”她想，心里感到很不高兴。“我让她准备晚餐的。”她很快赶到楼上安妮的房间，发现小姑娘正在床上哭泣。

“别看我，玛丽拉！”安妮叫道，“我知道我不好，我知道我不好！”

“发生 什么事了？”玛丽拉问道。“你是不是病了？”

“噢，玛丽拉，我真想去死！看看我的头发 ！”

玛丽拉发现安妮红色的长发辫已经变成难看的深绿色。

“唉，安妮！”玛丽拉说，“这次你又干了些什么？”

“我……我从门外的一个男人那里买了一瓶特制的东西。他说那东西可以把我的红头发变成黑色！我知道自己真是太傻了！但我现在该怎么办？”

她们把安妮的头发洗了一遍又一遍，但它还是绿色的。安妮在家里待了一个星期，什么人也不见，每天洗头。但等到了周末，玛丽拉说：“我很抱歉，安妮，我们必须把你的头发都剪掉。你不能留着绿色的头发上学校去。”

安妮只得同意了。“也许这能使我明白别总想变漂亮。”她难过地说。

每个人见到留着短发的安妮都很惊讶，但谁也不知道这其中的秘密。几周后，安妮的头上长出了新的、深红色鬈发，这使安妮感到非常高兴。

*　　*　　*

那年夏天，安妮和她的朋友们经常在河上一条破旧的船上玩。

“今天，我假装是一个囚犯，刚刚坐船从监狱里逃出来，”安妮说。“我藏在船里，河水会把船推到下游的小桥那里去。你们是我的亲人，你们必须在桥那里接我。”

其他的女孩都表示赞同，安妮上了小船，藏在几件衣服下面。她的小伙伴们把船推入水中，然后穿过田野向小桥跑去。刚开始的几分钟，“囚犯”还玩得很开心，可随后她就觉得身上很湿，就坐了起来。河水从船底的一个洞中飞快地涌了进来！幸运的是，岸边有一些树木。安妮看到河上低垂着一条树枝。她跳起来抓住了树枝。空船顺流而下，几秒钟后沉入了水中。

在桥上，安妮的小伙伴们看到了船，但她们没有看到紧紧抓住树枝的安妮。“哎呀！哎呀！安妮死了！船沉了，她掉进河里了！”孩子们尖叫着跑回村里求救。

可怜的安妮只能一动不动。她努力坚持着抓牢树枝，但她的胳膊感到越来越累，安妮知道很快她就会掉进河里。就在这时，吉尔伯特·布莱思和他的船出现了。

“安妮·雪利！”他呼喊着，“你在那儿干什么？”他没等安妮回答，迅速地帮助安妮爬进他的船里。安妮什么也没有说。当他们到达桥边的时候，她下了船，转过身去。

“谢谢你帮助我。”她冷冷地说。

吉尔伯特跳下船，将手放在安妮的肩膀上。

“安妮，”他说，“我很后悔叫你‘胡萝卜’。那是很久以前的事了。我认为现在你的头发真的很漂亮。我们能不能忘掉以前的事，成为好朋友？”

安妮本想马上说可以。但是她想起就是因为吉尔伯特，她被罚整个下午独自站在学校的孩子们面前。她不能原谅他！“不，”她冷冷地回答，“我永远也不会做你的朋友，吉尔伯特·布莱思！”

“好吧！”吉尔伯特愤怒地跳回到他的船里。“我再也不会请求你了，安妮·雪利！”

安妮昂着头走回了家，但奇怪的是她感觉很难过，甚至想哭。

“为什么你总是有麻烦，安妮？”听完安妮历险的经历，玛丽拉问道。

“我想我正在学习，玛丽拉，”安妮回答。“我从我犯的错误中学习。从今以后，我不会总是幻想了。我觉得埃文利村不是个可以幻想的好地方。”

“对，这儿不是。”玛丽拉有些不快地赞同道。

马修一直静静地坐在角落里，等玛丽拉出去以后，他轻声对安妮说：“保留一点幻想，安妮，当然，别太多，保留一点。”

5Queen's College

Queen's College

One day Marilla said, 'Anne, your new teacher, Miss Stacy, spoke to me yesterday. She says you must study for the examinations for Queen's College in two years' time. Then if you do well, you can study at Queen's in Charlottetown for a year, and after that you'll be a teacher!'

'Oh Marilla! I'd love to be a teacher! But won't it be very expensive?'

'That doesn't matter, Anne. When Matthew and I adopted you three years ago, we decided to look after you as well as we could. Of course we'll pay for you to study.'

So in the afternoons Anne and some of her friends stayed late at school, and Miss Stacy helped them with the special examination work. Diana didn't want to go to Queen's, so she went home early, but Gilbert stayed. He and Anne still never spoke and everybody knew that they were enemies, because they both wanted to be first in the examination. Secretly, Anne was sorry that she and Gilbert weren't friends, but it was too late now.

For two years Anne studied hard at school. She enjoyed learning, and Miss Stacy was pleased with her. But she didn't study all the time. In the evenings and at weekends she visited her friends, or walked through the fields with Diana, or sat talking to Matthew.

'Your Anne is a big girl now. She's taller than you,' Rachel Lynde told Marilla one day.

'You're right, Rachel!' said Marilla in surprise.

'And she's a very good girl now, isn't she? She doesn't get into trouble these days. I'm sure she helps you a lot with the housework, Marilla.'

'Yes, I don't know what I'd do without her,' said Marilla, smiling.

'And look at her! Those beautiful grey eyes, and that red-brown hair! You know, Marilla, I thought you and Matthew made a mistake when you adopted her. But now I see I was wrong. You've looked after her very well.'

'Well, thank you, Rachel,' replied Marilla, pleased.

That evening, when Matthew came into the kitchen, he saw that his sister was crying.

'What's the matter?' he asked, surprised. 'You haven't cried since... well, I can't remember when.'

'It's just... well, I was thinking about Anne,' said Marilla. 'I'll...I'll miss her when she goes away.'

'When she goes to Queen's, you mean? Yes, but she can come home at weekends, on the train.'

'I'll still miss her,' said Marilla sadly.

In June the Avonlea boys and girls had to go to Charlottetown to take their examinations.

'Oh, I do hope that I've done well,' Anne told Diana when she arrived back at Green Gables. 'The examinations were very difficult. And I've got to wait for three weeks before I know! Three weeks ! I'll die!'

Anne wanted to do better than Gilbert. But she also wanted to do well for Matthew and Marilla. That was very important to her.

Diana was the first to hear the news. She ran into the kitchen at Green Gables and shouted, 'Look, Anne! It's in Father's newspaper! You're first... with Gilbert... out of all the students on the island! Oh, how wonderful!' Anne took the paper with shaking hands, and saw her name, at the top of the list of two hundred. She could not speak.

'Well, now, I knew it,' said Matthew with a warm smile.

'You've done well, I must say, Anne,' said Marilla, who was secretly very pleased.

For the next three weeks Anne and Marilla were very busy. Anne needed new dresses to take to Charlottetown.

The evening before she left, she put on one of her new dresses to show Matthew. Marilla watched the happy young face. She remembered the strange, thin little child, with her sad eyes, who arrived at Green Gables five years ago, and she started crying quietly.

'Marilla, why are you crying?' asked Anne.

'I was just thinking of you when you were a little girl,' said Marilla. 'And... you're going away now... and I'll be lonely without you.'

Anne took Marilla's face in her hands. 'Marilla, nothing will change. Perhaps I'm bigger and older now, but I'll always be your little Anne. And I'll love you and Matthew and Green Gables more every day of my life.'

Marilla could not say what she felt, like Anne, but she could show it. She put her arms round her girl and held her close to her heart.

And so for the next year Anne lived in Charlottetown, and went to college every day. She sometimes came home at weekends, but she had to study hard. Some of her Avonlea friends were at Queen's too, and also her enemy, Gilbert Blythe. Anne saw that he often walked and talked with other girls. She felt sure that she and Gilbert could have some interesting conversations. But she didn't want to be the first to speak to him, and he never looked at her.

There were examinations at the end of the college year, in May. Anne studied very hard for them.

'I'd love to get the first place,' she thought. 'Or perhaps I could get the Avery prize.' This was a prize for the student who was best at English writing, and Anne knew she was good at that. The Avery prize paid for a free place for four years at Redmond College, one of the best colleges in Canada.

When news of the examinations came, Anne waited for her friends to tell her. She heard shouting. 'It's Gilbert! He's the first!' She felt ill. But just then she heard another shout. 'Anne Shirley's got the Avery!' And then all the girls were round her, laughing and shouting.

'Matthew and Marilla will be pleased!' thought Anne. 'Now I can go on studying, and they won't have to pay!'

adopt v. take (sb.) into one's family as a relation. 收养

adopt

miss v. feel sad when someone has gone away. 想念，惦记；怀念。

miss

lonely adj. sad because one's alone with no friends. 孤独的；寂寞的。

lonely

prize n. scholarship. 奖学金。

prize

free adj. without payment; costing nothing. 免费的

free

pleased adj. glad; feeling or showing satisfaction. 欣喜的；愉快的；感到或表示满足的。

pleased

5 　女王学院

一天，玛丽拉说：“安妮，你的新老师，斯塔西小姐昨天跟我谈了谈。她说你必须好好准备参加两年后的女王学院入学考试。如果你考得好，可以在夏洛特镇的女王学院学习一年，然后成为一名教师。”

“哦，玛丽拉！我喜欢当老师！可那是不是太贵了？”

“那没关系，安妮。三年前马修和我收养你的时候，我们决定尽力照顾你。我们当然会花钱让你上学。”

这样，每天下午，安妮和她的一些伙伴在学校待到很晚，斯塔西小姐帮助她们准备考试。戴安娜不准备去女王学院上学，因此她很早就回家了，可吉尔伯特留了下来。他和安妮还是不说话，每个人都知道他们是敌人，因为他们都想在考试中获得第一名。安妮为她没有和吉尔伯特成为朋友暗暗感到后悔，但已经太晚了。

安妮在学校里刻苦学习了两年，她热爱学习，斯塔西小姐对她很满意，但她并不将所有的时间花在学习上。晚上或周末的时候，她去拜访朋友，或与戴安娜在田野里散步，或坐着与马修聊天。

一天，雷切尔·林德对玛丽拉说：“你们的安妮现在已经成了大孩子了。现在她比你还高了。”

“是啊，雷切尔！”玛丽拉有点惊讶地回答。

“她是个好姑娘了，不是吗？现在她不再惹麻烦。我想她帮你干很多的家务活，玛丽拉。”

“对，我不知道没有她我该怎么办。”玛丽拉笑着说。

“看看她现在！那双漂亮的灰色眼睛和红褐色头发！你知道，玛丽拉，你们刚刚收养她的时候，我觉得你们犯了一个错误。可现在我知道是我错了。你们把她照看得非常好。”

“哦，谢谢，雷切尔。”玛丽拉高兴地回答。

那天晚上，当马修走进厨房的时候，看见他的妹妹正在哭泣。

“发生什么事了？”他吃惊地问道，“你上一次掉眼泪还是在……唉，我已经想不起是什么时候了。”

“只是因为……我在想关于安妮的事，”玛丽拉说，“她走了以后我会……我会想念她的。”

“你的意思是当她去女王学院的时候？是的，但周末的时候她可以坐火车回来。”

“但我还是会想念她。”玛丽拉难过地说。

六月里，埃文利村的男孩子和女孩子们必须去夏洛特镇参加考试。

“噢，我真希望我考得很好，”安妮回到格林-盖布尔斯后对戴安娜说。“考试非常难。而且我还得等三周才能知道成绩！三周啊 ！我会着急死的！”

安妮希望超过吉尔伯特。但她也希望为马修和玛丽拉争气，这对她很重要。

戴安娜是最先听到消息的。她跑进格林-盖布尔斯的厨房高喊道：“看，安妮！登在我父亲的报纸上！你是第一名……还有吉尔伯特……超过了岛上所有的学生！哦，多棒啊！”安妮用颤抖的手接过了报纸，看到自己的名字在两百个学生的名单中排在首位。她激动得说不出话。

“好，现在，我终于听到这好消息了。”马修面带微笑地说。

“我必须说，你干得很出色，安妮。”玛丽拉说，她的心里暗暗高兴。

在随后的三周时间里，玛丽拉和安妮非常忙碌。安妮需要一些新衣服带到夏洛特镇去。

出发的前一天晚上，安妮穿上一件新衣服给马修看。玛丽拉端详着安妮年轻快乐的脸。她回忆起五年前到格林-盖布尔斯来的那个奇怪、瘦弱、眼神忧伤的女孩，玛丽拉轻声地哭了起来。

“玛丽拉，您怎么哭了？”安妮问。

“我只是想起了你小的时候，”玛丽拉回答。“而你……你现在就要走了……没有你我会感觉很孤单的。”

安妮双手捧着玛丽拉的面颊。“玛丽拉，一切还和从前一样。也许我长大一些了，但我永远是您的小安妮。这辈子我每天都会更爱您、马修和格林-盖布尔斯的。”

玛丽拉无法像安妮那样说出自己的感觉，但她可以显示出来。她伸出双臂将安妮紧紧地搂在胸前。

这样，第二年安妮住在夏洛特镇，每天去上学。有时她周末回家去，但她必须刻苦学习。女王学院有她在埃文利村的一些朋友，还有她的敌人——吉尔伯特·布莱思。安妮发现他经常与其他女孩交谈或散步。她觉得自己和吉尔伯特可以谈得很开心。但她不想主动和他讲话，而吉尔伯特从来也不看她一眼。

五月，学年末的考试就要来了，安妮刻苦地准备着。

“我想得第一名，”她想。“或许我能得到艾弗里奖学金。”这是为英语写作成绩出色的学生颁发的，而安妮知道这门功课是自己的强项。得到艾弗里奖学金的学生可以在加拿大最好的大学——雷德蒙德大学免费学习四年。

考试的成绩公布以后，安妮等待着朋友来告诉她消息。她听到喊声。“是吉尔伯特！他是第一名！”她感觉很难过。而就在这时她听到另外有人喊。“安妮·雪利得到了艾弗里奖学金！”所有的女孩子都围着安妮，笑着叫着。

“马修和玛丽拉会很高兴的！”安妮想。“现在我可以继续学习，而他们不必付学费了！”

6Matthew and Marilla

Matthew and Marilla

But when she arrived back at Green Gables, Anne knew at once that something was wrong. Matthew looked much older than before.

'What's the matter with him?' Anne asked Marilla.

'He's had some heart trouble this year,' replied Marilla. 'He really isn't well. I'm worried about him.'

'And you're not looking well, Marilla,' said Anne. 'Now you must rest, while I do the housework.'

Marilla smiled tiredly at Anne. 'It's not the work, it's my head. It often hurts, behind my eyes. I must see the doctor about it soon. But another thing, Anne, have you heard anything about the Church Bank?'

'I heard it was having a difficult time.'

'All our money is in that bank. I know Matthew's worried about it.'

The next morning a letter came for Matthew. Marilla saw his grey face and cried, 'What's the matter, Matthew?'

Anne, who was bringing an armful of flowers into the kitchen, saw his face too. Suddenly, Matthew fell to the ground. Anne dropped her flowers and ran to help Marilla. Together they tried everything, but it was too late. Matthew was dead.

'It was his heart,' said the doctor, who arrived a little later. 'Did he have any bad news suddenly?'

'The letter!' cried Anne. 'Shall I see what's in it? Oh Marilla, look! The Church Bank has had to close down! Your money, and Matthew's, has all gone!'

Everybody in Avonlea was sorry to hear that Matthew was dead. For the first time in his life, Matthew Cuthbert was an important person.

At first Anne couldn't cry. But then she remembered Matthew's smiling face when she told him about the Avery prize. Suddenly she started crying and couldn't stop. Marilla held her in her arms and they sobbed together.

'Crying can't bring him back,' whispered Marilla. 'We'll have to learn to live without him, Anne.'

*　　*　　*

In the next few weeks Anne and Marilla worked hard together on the farm and in the house. Everybody in Avonlea was very kind to them, but it was a sad time.

One day Marilla said, 'I'll miss you when you go to Redmond College, Anne. What are the other Avonlea students going to do?'

'Some of them are going to teach, and some are going to stay at Queen's.'

'Gilbert's going to teach at Avonlea school, isn't he?' Anne didn't reply, so Marilla went on. 'He's very tall and good looking now, don't you think? Like his father, John, when he was younger. You know, John and I were very good friends, years ago.'

Anne looked up, interested. 'What happened? Why didn't you...?'

'Well, we had a fight about something. He asked me to be friends again, but I couldn't forgive him. Later I was sorry, but he didn't speak to me again. Perhaps we... Oh well, it was a long time ago.'

The next day Marilla went to see the doctor. When she came back, she looked very tired and ill.

'What did the doctor say?' asked Anne worriedly.

'He says I mustn't read or write, and I must wear glasses. Then my head won't hurt. But if I'm not very careful, I'll be blind in six months!'

For a minute Anne was silent. Then she said firmly, 'Then you must be careful, Marilla.'

'Think how terrible it is to be blind! But how lucky you've got a free place at Redmond College! I can't give you any money, you see. All our money's gone, and I can't work now. I think I'll have to sell the farm, and go and live with Rachel Lynde!' and poor Marilla sobbed wildly.

That night Anne sat alone in her bedroom. She thought and thought for some time, and then she smiled. When she went to bed, she knew what she was going to do.

The next day she explained it all to Marilla.

'You can't sell Green Gables, it's our home! Just listen, I've planned everything. I'm not going to Redmond College, it's too far away. I'm going to teach, in one of the village schools near here. Then I can live there during the week and come home at weekends to look after you. Diana's father will use our fields and pay us for them, and so we'll have some money. You see?'

'Oh Anne! I'll be all right if you're here. But you must go to Redmond, if you want to study...'

'Redmond College doesn't matter,' laughed Anne. 'I' m going to study at home in the evenings. And I'm going to be a really good teacher! That's better than anything!'

Marilla shook her head and tried not to cry. 'You're a good girl, Anne. Now we can keep Green Gables!'

A few days later Rachel Lynde came to the farm.

'Do you know,' she said, 'that Gilbert isn't going to be the Avonlea teacher now?'

'Isn't he?' cried Anne. 'Why not?'

'When he heard that you wanted to be near Marilla, he decided to teach at a school in another village. So you can be the Avonlea teacher now.'

'Oh!' said Anne, surprised. 'That's... that's very kind of him.'

And that day, when she saw Gilbert by the river, she stopped him and held out her hand.

'Gilbert,' she said shyly, 'I... I want to thank you. It's very good of you. If I'm the Avonlea teacher, I can help Marilla much more at home.'

'I'm happy to help you, Anne,' said Gilbert. He smiled and held her hand firmly. 'Are we going to be friends now? Have you forgiven me for calling you "carrots"?'

Anne laughed. 'I forgave you a long time ago.'

'I'm sure we're going to be very good friends, Anne. Can I walk home with you?'

And when Anne came into the Green Gables kitchen, Marilla said, 'You look very happy, Anne. Was that Gilbert who was with you just now?'

'Yes,' replied Anne, her face red. 'Gilbert and I've decided to be friends. Oh Marilla, I think life is going to be good for all of us! We'll have to work hard, but we'll be happy. And we'll keep our dear old Green Gables! What could be better than that!'

hurt v. cause bodily injury or pain (to). （使）疼痛。

hurt

armful n. as much as one arm. or both arms, can hold. （两臂或一臂）一抱之量。

armful

close down shut completely. 停业；倒闭。

close down

lucky adj. having good luck. 好运气的；走运的。

lucky

shyly adv. not sure about oneself. 害羞；腼腆。

shyly

forgive v. say or show you are not angry with someone anymore. 原谅，宽恕。

forgive

6 　马修和玛丽拉

当她赶回格林-盖布尔斯的时候，安妮立刻有一种不祥的感觉。马修看上去比以前老了很多。

“马修怎么了？”安妮问玛丽拉。

“今年他的心脏病犯了几次，”玛丽拉回答，“他的情况确实不太好。我很为他担心。”

“您 的气色也不太好，玛丽拉，”安妮说，“现在您必须休息，家务活由我来做。”

玛丽拉疲倦地笑了笑。“家务事倒没什么，主要是我经常头疼，就在眼睛后面。我得尽快看医生。还有一件事，安妮，你听到关于车茨银行的事了吗？”

“我听说它经营困难。”

“我们所有的钱都在那家银行里。我知道马修很担心。”

第二天马修接到一封信。玛丽拉看到马修的脸一下变灰了，连忙喊道：“发生什么事了，马修？”

安妮刚刚拿着一捧花走进厨房，她也看到了马修的脸。突然，马修倒在地上。安妮扔下花来帮助玛丽拉。她们想尽了一切办法拯救马修，可已经太晚了。马修死了。

晚些时候，大夫来了，他说：“是因为他的心脏，他有没有突然听到什么不好的消息？”

“是那封信！”安妮叫道，“我能不能看看里面写了些什么？哦，玛丽拉，您看！车茨银行已经倒闭了！您的钱，还有马修的，都没了！”

听到马修去世的消息，埃文利村的每一个人都很难过。马修·卡斯伯特这辈子第一次成了一个重要人物。

起初安妮哭不出来。但当她想起马修听到她获得艾弗里奖学金时脸上的笑容，就突然忍不住大哭起来。玛丽拉搂着安妮，两人一起哭泣。

“哭也没法让他回来了，”玛丽拉小声说道，“我们必须学会习惯没有马修的生活，安妮。”

*　　*　　*

在以后的几周里，安妮和玛丽拉在田地里和家中辛勤地劳作。埃文利村的每一个人都对她们很好，但这是一段伤心的日子。

一天，玛丽拉说：“你到雷德蒙德大学以后我会想念你的，安妮。埃文利村的其他孩子有何打算？”

“他们中的一些人会成为教师，还有一些留在女王学院。”

“吉尔伯特将留在埃文利学校当教师，是吗？”安妮没有回答，所以玛丽拉继续说下去。“他现在已经是个高个子的帅小伙了，你不这么认为吗？像他父亲约翰年轻时一样。你知道，许多年前，约翰和我曾经是很要好的朋友。”

安妮很感兴趣，抬起头问道：“发生什么事了？为什么您不……？”

“哎，我们为了一件事吵了起来。他请求我重新成为他的好朋友，但我不能原谅他。后来我很后悔，但他再也不和我讲话了。也许我们……哎，那已经是很久以前的事了。”

第二天，玛丽拉去看病。当她回来的时候，看上去非常疲倦，好像是生病了。

“医生说了些什么？”安妮焦急地问

“他说我不能再读书写字了，而且我必须戴上眼镜。那样我的头就不会疼了。如果我不小心的话，六个月以后我就会失明！”

安妮沉默了一会儿。随后她坚定地说：“您必须小心点儿，玛丽拉。”

“想想双目失明多可怕！但你能够在雷德蒙德大学免费学习真是幸运！你看，我已经没法给你钱了。我们所有的钱都没了，我现在又不能劳动。我想我必须卖掉农场，然后搬去和雷切尔·林德同住！”可怜的玛丽拉边说边哭了起来。

那天晚上安妮独自坐在她的卧室里。她思量了很长时间，然后她的脸上出现了笑容。当她上床休息的时候，她已经知道自己该如何去做。

第二天，安妮向玛丽拉解释了一切。

“您不能把农场卖掉，它是我们的家！您听我说，我已计划好一切。我不打算到雷德蒙德大学去，那里太遥远了。我将在附近村庄的一所学校教书。这样平常的时候我可以住在那里，周末的时候回来照顾您。戴安娜的父亲可以使用我们的土地，同时给我们地租，这样我们就有一些钱了。您看这样不好吗？”

“噢，安妮，你在这里我当然会很好。但如果你想学习，你必须去雷德蒙德……”

“去不去雷德蒙德大学没有关系。”安妮笑道。“晚上我可以在家自己学习。而且我会成为一名非常出色的教师！那比什么都好！”

玛丽拉摇摇头强忍住眼泪。“你是个好姑娘，安妮。现在我们可以留住农场了！”

几天后，雷切尔·林德来到了农场。

“你们知道吗，”她说，“吉尔伯特现在不想当埃文利村的教师了？”

“不当了？”安妮高声问道。“为什么？”

“他听说你希望离玛丽拉近一些，决定到另外一个村的学校教书。那样你就可以成为埃文利村的教师了。”

“噢！”安妮吃惊地说。“那……那他真是太好了。”

那天，当安妮在河边见到吉尔伯特的时候，她叫住了他，并向他伸出手去。

“吉尔伯特，”她腼腆地说，“我……我想谢谢你。你这样做真是太好了。如果我当埃文利村的教师，我就可以在家里更多地照顾玛丽拉了。”

“能帮助你我很高兴，安妮，”吉尔伯特说。他笑着紧紧抓住安妮的手。“我们现在可以成为朋友了吗？你现在原谅我曾叫你‘胡萝卜’了吗？”

安妮笑道：“我很久以前就已经原谅你了。”

“我肯定我们能成为非常好的朋友，安妮。我能送你回家吗？”

当安妮走进格林-盖布尔斯厨房时，玛丽拉说：“你看上去非常高兴，安妮。刚才和你在一起的是吉尔伯特吗？”

“是的，”安妮红着脸回答。“吉尔伯特和我决定成为朋友。哦，玛丽拉，我想我们都会有幸福的生活！我们的工作会很辛苦，但我们会很快乐。我们将留住我们心爱的老农场！还有什么比这更好呢！”

Exercises

A Checking your understanding

Chapters 1 - 2 Who said these words in the story?

Chapters 1 - 2

1 'Well, perhaps the children's home didn't have any boys.'

2 'This is the worst thing that's happened to me in all my life!'

3 'She's a clever little thing, you know.'

4 'Just look at those freckles!'

5 'It's lonely downstairs without you.'

Chapters 3 - 4 Who in the story...

Chapters 3 - 4

1 ...was Anne's best friend?

2 ...was Anne's first teacher at school?

3 ...called Anne 'carrots'?

4 ...ate Anne's cake, which had medicine in it?

5 ...wanted Anne to keep a little imagination?

Chapters 5 - 6 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

Chapters 5 - 6

1 Diana, Anne, and Gilbert all studied for the Queen's College examinations.

2 Anne came home every weekend from college in Charlottetown.

3 Anne hoped to get the Avery prize.

4 Marilla had heart trouble.

5 Anne decided not to study at Redmond College.

B Working with language

1 Complete these sentences with in formation from the story.

1

1 Anne asked Marilla to call her Cordelia because...

2 Anne hated her red hair, so...

3 When Anne went to Queen's, Marilla...

4 Matthew was worried about the Church Bank because...

2 Put together these beginnings and endings of sentences. Check your answers in Chapter 4.

2

1 The other girls agreed to Anne's plan,

2 Her friends pushed the boat off down the river

3 When water began to come into the boat,

4 The boat went on without her

5 Her friends screamed, 'Oh! Oh! Anne's dead!'

6 and ran across the fields to get round to the bridge.

7 and a few seconds later went down under the water.

8 so Anne got into the boat and hid under some coats.

9 and ran back to the village for help.

10 Anne jumped up and caught a low branch on a tree.

C Activities

1 Write a letter to the author of the book and say what you like and what you don't like about it.

2 Write Anne's diary for the day when Mr and Mrs Allan came to tea.

3 What do you think happened after the end of the book? Write a conversation between Marilla and her friend Rachel Lynde, in five years' time. You could begin like this:

'Well, Marilla,' said Mrs Lynde, 'this is very exciting news about Anne, isn't it?'

'Yes, it is,' Marilla said slowly, 'but it's sad for me...'

京权图字 01-97-0345

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 1995

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

五个孩子和沙精／（英）内斯比特（Nesbit, E.）著；（英）莫厄特（Mowat, D.）改写；孙炤译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，1998.6（2014.3 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Five Children and It

ISBN 978-7-5600-1379-4

Ⅰ．五…　Ⅱ．①内…②莫…③孙…　Ⅲ．①英语—语言读物②儿童文学—长篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第009183号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 任小玫

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 1998年6月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-1379-4

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





简　介


它是个“赛米德”（即沙精）。有一天孩子们在砾石坑中挖沙时发现了它。它已经几千岁了。当然了，沙精们可以帮人们实现他们的愿望——愿望每天只能实现一个，而且当太阳落山时一切也就结束了。安西娅、西里尔、罗伯特和简觉得这棒极了。他们的小弟弟还太小，不会许愿，而且大部分时间都待在家里；可其他几个盘算着要些激动人心的东西。

可那又是什么呢？变得漂亮，富有，还是能像鸟儿一样飞翔？有时候想出真正的好愿望很困难，可是脱口说出“但愿……”却是很容易的，那时你就得到了并不真正想要的东西。这时沙精就不肯帮忙了。出了差错时它就生气地说：“为什么你不先想好了再说？”

而事情的确常出差错……

伊迪丝·内斯比特1858年生于伦敦，1924年逝世。她一生从事写作，为儿童写了很多书。其中著名的有《五个孩子和沙精》、《长生鸟与地毯》及《铁路上的孩子》等。





1Beautiful Children


Beautiful Children

The house was about four kilometres from the station, but after only a minute or two the children began to ask, 'Are we nearly there?' And every time they saw a house they said, 'Oh, is this it?' But it never was. Then they came to the top of a hill, and there was a white house with a green garden and lots of fruit trees. 'Here we are!' Mother said.

Everyone hurried to get out of the carriage — Robert, Anthea, Jane, Cyril, and Martha, the nursemaid, with the baby. But Mother did not hurry. The children ran round the house and all through the garden to see what there was. But Mother stood and watched the driver while he carried the boxes into the house.

The children loved the house. They knew immediately that they were going to be happy there. Mother did not like the house very much because it was old and there were no cupboards. But it was deep in the country and after two years in London the children thought that it was wonderful. If you live in London and your family is not rich, you get bored because you cannot go to shops and theatres, and people say, 'Don't do this' and 'Don't go there'. In the country you can go anywhere and do anything.

The white house was on the hill, with a wood behind it and a gravel-pit on one side. It was at the gravel-pit, a week later, that the children found a fairy. Well, that was what it called itself. But it was different from other fairies.

It happened when Mother had to go and stay with Grandmother, who was ill. Martha stayed with the children, of course. But the house was very quiet and empty. The children did not know what to do. Then Cyril said, 'Let's go to the gravel- pit.'

The gravel-pit was very large, with grass and wild flowers round the sides at the top. When they got there, the children decided that they would go down into the pit to play in the sand.

'Let's dig a deep hole — perhaps we can get all the way down to Australia,' said Robert.

The others agreed and they all began to dig hard in the sand. But it was a very hot day. Baby went to sleep and Robert, Cyril, and Jane sat down to rest, but Anthea went on working on the hole.

Suddenly she screamed. 'Cyril! Come here! Quick! There's something alive!' she cried.

They all jumped up and hurried over to see what it was.

'It's got feet,' Anthea said. 'And fur. Don't hurt it. I know this sounds stupid, but it said something.'

'What did it say?' asked Cyril.

'It said, “You leave me alone.”'

The others just laughed, but the two boys began to move away more of the sand. Soon they could see that there really was something moving in the hole.

Suddenly a hard little voice cried, 'Leave me alone!'

They all jumped back and no one spoke for a minute. Then Robert said, 'But we want to see you.'

'Yes, I wish you'd come out,' Anthea said.

'Oh, well, if that's your wish,' the voice said, and the sand began to fly about everywhere. Then something brown and furry and fat fell out into the hole. 'I think I was asleep,' it said.

The children stood and looked at it. It really was very strange. It could move its eyes in and out on stalks, it had big ears and its body was fat and round and furry. Its legs and arms had soft fur all over them too, and it had hands and feet.

'What is it?' asked Jane. 'Shall we take it home?'

The thing turned its long eyes to look at her. 'Does she always say stupid things?' it said.

'She doesn't mean it,' Anthea said. 'Don't be afraid. We won't hurt you.'

The little thing was angry. 'Hurt me !' it cried. 'I'm not afraid of you !'

'Oh, don't be angry,' said Anthea kindly. 'Tell us who you are. We really don't know.'

'You don't know?' it said. 'Don't you know a Psammead when you see one?'

'A Sammyadd? What's that?' Jane said.

'A sand-fairy, of course. Don't you know a sand-fairy when you see one?'

It looked very unhappy, and Jane said, 'Of course! I can see that you're a sand-fairy now.'

And Robert said, 'Well, I didn't know that you were a Psammead, but I can see that you are something very wonderful. Please talk some more to us.'

The Psammead looked a little happier when it heard that, and it said, 'Well, you can talk to me, if you want to. Perhaps I'll answer you and perhaps I won't. Now say something.'

At first the children could not think of anything to say, but then Robert asked, 'How long have you lived here?'

'Oh, thousands of years,' the Psammead answered.

The children waited, but the Psammead was silent.

'Please tell us more,' Robert said.

'Well, all right, then,' the Psammead said. 'There were lots of us then,' it went on. 'People sent their children out to look for Psammeads, and when they found us, we gave them a wish.'

'What happened to all the Psammeads, then?' Robert asked.

'Well, if they get wet, they get ill and they usually die, and that's what happened. Most of them got wet and died. And I'm not going to tell you another thing.'

'Oh, just one more question, please,' said Robert. 'Do you give wishes now?'

'You've had one,' said the Psammead. 'You wished to see me, and here I am.'

'Oh, please. Just one more,' Anthea cried.

'Well, all right, but be quick! I'm tired of you!'

It is very difficult to think of a really good wish, in just a second or two. Then Anthea remembered a wish of hers and Jane's. She knew that the boys wouldn't like it, but it was better than nothing.

'I wish we were all very, very beautiful,' she said.

The Psammead pushed out its long eyes and got bigger and fatter, and the children waited. Then it said, 'I'm sorry. I haven't done this for a long time. I'll try again, but I can only do one wish a day for you. Do you agree to that?'

'Yes, oh yes!' the children cried.

'But remember, the wish is only for a day,' said the Psammead. 'When the sun goes down, everything goes back to what it was.'

The Psammead slowly got bigger, then suddenly went small again. 'That's all right!' it said. At once it turned and went back into the sand at the bottom of the hole.

The children stood there for a second, and then Anthea turned to speak to the others. But they were not there! She was looking at three strangers — a girl with beautiful red hair and big blue eyes, and two very good-looking boys. Suddenly she understood. They had their wish. The strangers were Robert and Cyril and Jane — but now they were beautiful. Cyril's hair was golden now, and Robert's was black.

'I liked you better before!' Robert cried angrily to his brother and sisters. 'Jane's hair looks like carrots, and Cyril looks really stupid with long golden hair.'

They went to find Baby, but he was just the same as he was before.

'Perhaps it's because he's young. He can't have wishes. We'll have to remember that next time,' Anthea said, and she held out her arms to him. But Baby's mouth turned down at the corners and then he began to cry loudly. He did not know them!

It took an hour to stop him crying and then, very tired and cross, they took him home. Martha, Baby's nursemaid, was waiting at the front door. She took Baby from them quickly.

'Where are the others?' she asked. 'And who are you?'

'We're us , of course,' Robert said. 'You don't know us because we're beautiful.'

'And we're very hungry,' said Cyril, 'and we want our lunch, please.'

'Go away!' Martha screamed. 'Or I'll send for the police,' and she closed the door in their faces.

The children were very hungry by then, and they tried three times to get into the house — but Martha would not let them in. After a while they went and sat at the bottom of the garden to wait for the sun to go down. 'The wish will finish then, won't it?' Jane said.

But the others didn't answer because no one was really sure.

It was a terrible afternoon. They had no lunch, no tea, and they were tired, angry and afraid. It's true that they were all very beautiful, but that's not a lot of help when you're unhappy. In the end they fell asleep.

It was nearly dark when they woke up. Anthea was the first to wake up and she looked at the others. They were no longer very beautiful. Everything was all right again. Happily, they all went back to the house. Of course, Martha was angry. 'Where have you been all day?' she cried.

It is not easy to explain a Psammead to an angry nursemaid, so the children didn't try.

'We met some beautiful children and we couldn't get away from them until it was nearly dark,' Anthea said. 'They were terrible, and we never want to see them again.'

And they never have.

kilometre n. 1000 metres. 公里。

carriage n. car with four wheels, pulled by a horse or horses, for carrying people. （尤指一匹或数匹马拉的载人的）四轮马车。

nursemaid n. a woman servant who helps a mother with her baby. 保姆。

immediately adv. at once. 立刻；马上。

cupboard n. a separate piece of furniture used for dishes, clothes, etc. 柜子；碗橱；衣橱。

country n. 乡村（与城市相对）。

get bored get tired. 感到厌烦；厌倦。

fairy n. a person or thing which is not real, but in stories does wonderful, impossible things. 精灵；仙女。

(be) different from unlike; not of the same kind. 与……不一样；与……不同。

gravel-pit n. a big hole in the ground or the side of a hill，where people have taken away gravel (very small stone) and sand. 砾石坑。

scream v. give a loud，cry or cries of fear or pain. （指人、鸟、兽）发出（宛如）恐惧或痛苦的尖叫声。

alive adj. living. 活着的。

fur n. the soft hair on an animal's body. （动物身上的）毛。

leave sb. alone 不动、不碰或不干涉某人或某事物；听其自然。

alone adv. ＆ adj. without others. 独自地（的）。

furry adj. covered with fur. 似毛皮的；覆有毛皮的。

turn v. (cause to) move. （使）转动。

stalk n. （植物的）柄；梗；杆。

mean v. （指词、句等）表示……的意思；含……之意。

Psammead n. 作者创造的词：沙精（此词源于一个希腊词）。

at first at the beginning. 最初；当初。

silent adj. saying little or nothing. 沉默的。

go on continue. 继续（说）。

be tired of have had enough of. 对……感到厌烦；厌倦。

look like seem(to be). 看起来像。

carrot n. plant with yellow or orange-red root. 胡萝卜。

hold out one's arms 伸出手臂。

turn down at the corners draw back the corners of the mouth. 撇嘴。

send for the police ask the police to come. 叫警察来。

in one's face 公开地；当面地。

fall asleep drop asleep; go into the state of sleep. 睡着了。

wake up stop sleeping. 醒；不再睡。

no longer not any more. 不再。

get away to escape, 设法离开；逃脱。

nearly adv. almost. 几乎。





1 　漂亮的孩子


他们的新家距车站大约四公里远，而每过一两分钟孩子们就开口问：“我们快到了吗？”而且他们每看到一幢房子都说：“哦，是这个吗？”可总不是。接着他们来到一个山顶，那儿有一幢带有绿色的花园和很多果树的白房子。“我们到了！”母亲说。

大家急忙下车——罗伯特、安西娅、简、西里尔，还有抱着婴孩的保姆马莎。可母亲不慌不忙。孩子们绕着房子跑，都穿过花园看看那里有什么。但是赶车人把箱子搬到房子里去时妈妈站着看着他。

孩子们喜欢这房子。他们马上就明白在那儿他们会很快活的。母亲不太喜欢这房子，因为它很旧，也没有柜子。可是这房子位于真正意义上的乡间；在伦敦住了两年之后，孩子们认为这一点太好了。要是住在伦敦可你的家庭又不富有，你就会觉得厌倦，因为你不能去商店和剧场，人们还会说“不许干这个”、“不许去那儿”的。在乡下你想去哪儿就去哪儿，想干什么就干什么。

这白房子位于小山上，后边有一片树林，在一边还有一个砾石坑。就是在这个砾石坑里孩子们一周之后发现了一个精灵。唔，它是这样称呼自己的，但是它和别的精灵可不一样。

事情发生在母亲去探望祖母的时候，祖母病了。当然马莎留下来和孩子们在一起。可房子里静悄悄的，空荡荡的。孩子们不知道做些什么好。过了一会儿，西里尔说：“咱们去砾石坑吧。”

砾石坑大极了，坑口四周长着青草和野花。孩子们到了那儿时，他们决定到坑里去玩沙子。

“咱们挖个深深的洞——也许能一直挖到澳大利亚呢。”罗伯特说。

别的孩子同意了，他们就都起劲地挖起沙来。可天气很热。小弟弟睡觉去了，罗伯特、西里尔和简坐下来休息，可安西娅继续挖着洞。

突然她尖叫起来。“西里尔！到这儿来！快！有什么活的东西！”她叫道。

他们都跳起身来，急忙过去看是什么东西。

“它有脚，”安西娅说，“还有毛。别伤着它。我知道这话听起来有些蠢，可它说话了。”

“它说什么？”西里尔问。

“它说：‘别来打搅我。’”

别的孩子只是笑，可那两个男孩开始挖开更多的沙子。很快他们就能看见洞里真有个东西在动。

突然一个刺耳的、细小的声音喊道：“别打搅我！”

他们都向后退了几步，一时谁也没说话。过了一会儿罗伯特说：“可是我们想看看你。”

“是啊，我希望你出来。”安西娅说。

“哦，好吧，如果那是你们的愿望的话，”那个声音说；沙子开始到处乱飞。一会儿一个褐色的、长着毛的、胖乎乎的东西从沙里飞落到洞中。“我想我刚才睡着了。”它说。

孩子们站着看着它。它的确长得很奇怪。它有一双伸缩自如的柄眼、一对大耳朵，身体又胖又圆，还毛绒绒的。它的胳膊和腿上也覆盖着柔毛，而它还长着手和脚。

“是什么呀？”简问道，“要不要把它带回家？”

这东西转动它的柄眼看着她。“她老说蠢话吗？”它说。

“她不是那个意思。”安西娅说，“别怕，我们不会伤害你。”

这小东西生气了。“伤害我 ？！”它叫着，“我才不怕你们 呢！”

“哦，别生气，”安西娅和蔼地说，“告诉我们你是谁。我们真不知道。”

“你们不知道？”它说，“你们看到一个赛米德时难道会不认识？”

“赛米德？那是什么啊？”筒说。

“当然是沙精了。你们见到沙精会不认识？”

它显得很不高兴，简就说：“当然！现在我知道你是个沙精了。”

罗伯特也说：“喔，我原来不知道你是赛米德，可现在我看得出你棒极了。请再跟我们说些话吧。”

听到那个这个赛米德显得稍微高兴些了，它说：“好吧，如果你们愿意，你们可以和我说说话。我也许回答你们的问题，也许不回答。现在说什么吧。”

开头孩子们想不出要说什么，然而不一会儿罗伯特就问：“你在这儿住多久了？”

“哦，几千年了吧。”赛米德回答说。

孩子们等赛米德往下说，但它不说话了。

“请多告诉我们一些情况，”罗伯特说。

“唔，行，那好，”赛米德说。“当初我们有许多人马呢，”它接着说。“人们打发孩子们去找赛米德，找到时我们就给他们实现一个愿望。”

“那后来赛米德都怎么样了？”罗伯特问。

“噢，要是它们弄湿了自己，就会生病，常常会死的，事情就是那样。大部分赛米德弄湿了，死了。我不再告诉你们别的事了。”

“哦，请再回答一个问题，”罗伯特说，“你现在还帮人们实现愿望吗？”

“你们已经实现一个了。”赛米德说，“你们希望看到我，我就来了。”

“噢，求求你了。就再来实现一个愿望吧。”安西娅叫道。

“唔，那好吧，可是快点！你们真烦人！”

一两秒内就想出一个好愿望真困难。接着安西娅记起了她和简的一个愿望。她知道男孩子们不会喜欢它，可总比没有强。

“我希望我们都非常非常漂亮，”她说。

赛米德将双眼从眼眶伸出去好远，并变大变胖了，孩子们等待着。一会儿，它说：“对不起。我很久没这样做了。我再试一次，但是一天只能为你们实现一个愿望。你们同意吗？”

“同意，同意！”孩子们喊道。

“但是记住，只能维持一个白天。”赛米德说，“太阳落下去时，一切就恢复原样了。”

赛米德慢慢地大起来，然后突然又变小了。“好了！”它说。它马上转过身回到洞底的沙中去了。

孩子们站了一下，然后安西娅转身去和其他的孩子说话。可他们不在了！她看见三个陌生人——一个长着漂亮的红头发和大大的蓝眼睛的女孩，还有两个很好看的男孩。她忽然明白了。他们的愿望实现了：陌生人就是罗伯特、西里尔和简——只是他们现在漂亮了。西里尔的头发现在是金色的了，罗伯特则是黑头发。

“我更喜欢你们原来的样子！”罗伯特生气地对他的姐弟们叫着，“简的头发像胡萝卜，西里尔长着金色长发的样子看起来真傻。”

他们去找小弟弟，可他还是原来的样子。

“也许是因为他太小了吧。他也不会希望要什么。下次我们得记住。”安西娅说着并向他伸出手臂。可小弟弟撇着嘴开始大哭起来。他不认识他们 ！

花了一个小时才哄他不哭了。他们又累又气，把他带回家。小弟弟的保姆马莎正在前门等候。她很快地把孩子接过去。

“别的孩子们在哪儿呢？”她问，“你们是谁？”

“我们就是我们 ，当然了。”罗伯特说，“你不认识我们是因为我们漂亮了。”

“我们还非常饿，”西里尔说，“我们想要午饭，求求了。”

“走开！”马莎叫道，“不然我要叫警察了。”她当着他们的面关上了门。

那时孩子们已经非常饿了，他们三次试图进门——但是马莎每次都不让他们进去。过了一会儿，他们去坐在花园尽头，等太阳落下去。“到那会儿愿望就结束了，不是吗？”简说。

其他人没有回答，因为谁也不敢肯定。

那个下午可真糟。他们没有午饭，没有茶点，还又累又气又害怕。他们确实都很漂亮，可人不高兴时漂亮也帮不了多大忙。最后他们睡着了。

他们醒来时天都快黑了。安西娅第一个醒来，她看看其他孩子。他们不再很漂亮了。一切都恢复原样了。他们都高高兴兴地回屋了。当然，马莎很生气。“你们一整天到哪里去了？”她喊道。

对一个发怒的保姆解释清楚赛米德是什么可不是件容易的事，所以孩子们没试着解释。

“我们遇到了些漂亮孩子，直到天快黑才脱身。”安西娅说，“他们太可怕了，我们不想再见到他们。”

他们实际上从来也没见过那几个孩子。





2The Children Wish to Be Rich


The Children Wish to Be Rich

The next morning Martha took Baby out with her and the children decided to go back to the gravel-pit to look for the Psammead again. At first they could not find it. 'Perhaps it wasn't really here,' Robert said. But they began to dig into the sand with their hands and suddenly they came to the brown furry body of the Psammead. It sat up and shook the sand out of its fur.

'How are you today?' Anthea asked.

'Well, I didn't sleep very well, but thank you for asking,' the Psammead answered.

'Can you give wishes today?' Robert said. 'Because we'd like to have two, if we can. But one is a very little wish.'

'Well, all right,' said the Psammead, looking at Robert with its long eyes. 'Let's have the little wish first.'

'Martha mustn't know about the wishes,' Robert said. 'I mean, she mustn't see anything different about us. And can you do that for every wish on every day?'

The Psammead went a little bigger and then went small again. 'I've done that,' it said. 'It was easy. What's the next wish?'

'We wish,' said Robert slowly, 'to be very rich.'

'How much money do you want?' asked the Psammead. 'It won't do you much good, of course,' it said quietly to itself. 'Well, how much — and do you want it in gold or notes?'

'Gold, please,' Robert said. 'Millions!'

'A full gravel-pit, all right?' said the Psammead, sounding bored. 'But get out before I begin, or you'll die underneath it.'

Its thin arms got very long and it began to move them about. The children were afraid, and ran as fast as they could up to the road. When they were there, they turned to look back. They had to close their eyes and open them again very slowly. The gravel-pit was full, right up to the top, with new, shining, gold coins!

The children stood with their mouths open, and no one said a word.

Then Robert took one of the coins in his hand and looked at it. 'It's different from English money,' he said.

'Well, it doesn't matter. It's gold,' said Cyril. 'Don't forget that it will all go when the sun goes down. Come on! Let's put as much as we can in our pockets and go and spend it.'

So they all put gold coins in their pockets and went off to the village. But the gold was heavy, and soon they were very tired and hot. They decided to get something to drink in the village and then go on to the town of Rochester.

Cyril went into the shop and the others waited outside. But when Cyril came back with a bottle of lemonade, he said, 'I had to pay with my real money. When they saw all the coins, they wouldn't change the gold.'

'Well, I'll try to get something with the gold,' Anthea said. 'We need a horse and cart. Come on.'

Anthea went to talk to a man who had a horse and cart, and the others waited. After a few minutes she came back, looking very pleased with herself. 'I wasn't stupid like Cyril,' she said. 'I only took out one coin, not all of them, and the man said he'll drive us to Rochester and wait for us.'

On the way to Rochester, they did not speak. They were making plans about how to spend their gold, and they did not want to talk in front of the driver.

But when they arrived in Rochester, with about twelve hundred gold coins in their pockets, they found that it was very difficult to spend them. Anthea tried to buy a very nice hat, but the woman in the shop looked very strangely, first at the gold coins, then at Anthea.

'I can't take that,' she said. 'It's not modern English money.'

They went from shop to shop, but no one wanted to take their gold. 'It's because our hands are dirty and we look untidy. People think we've stolen the gold,' Anthea said.

And it was worse when they tried to buy a horse and carriage. Cyril showed the man his gold, and the man called to his son, 'Send for the police!'

'It's our money,' said Cyril angrily. 'We're not thieves.'

'Where did you get it from then?' said the man.

'A sand-fairy gave it to us,' said Jane. 'He gives us a wish a day and they all come true.'

The man shook his head slowly. 'Oh dear, oh dear,' he said. 'Stealing, and then telling stories about it.'

Just then a policeman arrived and when he heard about the gold, he said to the four children, 'Come with me. I'm taking you to the police station!'

The children were angry and unhappy, but the policeman walked along the road behind them and they couldn't escape. They held their heads down because they did not want anyone to see them, and suddenly Robert ran into someone. 'Robert, what have you done now?' a voice cried. It was Martha and Baby!

The policeman explained everything to Martha, and Cyril had to take the gold out of his pocket and show it to her.

'I can't see anything — just two very dirty hands,' she said. 'There's no gold there. What are you talking about?'

And then the children remembered that Martha couldn't see the wishes.

It was getting dark when they arrived at the police station. The policeman explained about the gold and the Inspector said, 'Well, let's see it.'

Cyril put his hands into his pockets — but they were empty! The others put their hands into their pockets. They were empty, too! Of course, all the fairy gold went when the sun went down!

'How did they do that?' cried the policeman.

Martha was very angry with him. 'I told you that there wasn't any gold,' she shouted. ' You'll be in trouble for this. Saying that these poor little children are thieves!'

But she was very angry with the children too. 'What were you doing in town alone?' she said to them outside the police station.

And she took them home and sent them to bed early.

It won't do you much good ... 这对你们没什么好处……

full adj. holding or having plenty (of); completely filled. 满的；装满的。

coin n. （一枚）铸币；硬币。

lemonade n. 柠檬汽水。

cart n. two-wheeled vehicle pulled by a horse. 二轮单马车。

looking very pleased with oneself (too) satisfied with what one has done. （感到）高兴；满意；得意。

on the way (to a place) 在路上；在途中。

plan n. arrangement for doing or using something in future. 计划；方案。

untidy adj. (of a person) not neat; (of a room, desk, etc.) in disorder, （指人）邋遢的，不整洁的；（指房间、书桌等）零乱的，不整齐的。

call v. say sth. in a loud voice; cry, 大声说话；喊叫（以引起注意）。

come true (of a hope, dream) really happen. （指希望、梦想）实现；达到。

tell stories lie. 说谎。

police station （当地的）警察分局；派出所。

run into sb. meet sb. by chance. 偶遇某人。

inspector n. [英]（警察）巡官。

in trouble in difficulty. 处于困境中（如因做错某事）。





2 　孩子们希望变得富有


第二天早晨，马莎带着小弟弟出去了，孩子们决定回砾石坑那儿再去找赛米德。开头他们没有找到。“也许它不一定真在这里。”罗伯特说。可他们还是开始用手挖沙子，忽然他们触到了赛米德褐色的、毛绒绒的身体。它坐起来抖掉毛上的沙子。

“你好吗？”安西娅问。

“嗯，我没睡好，但谢谢你的问候。”赛米德回答。

“今天你能给人实现愿望吗？”罗伯特说，“因为如果可以的话我们想要实现两个愿望。不过有一个是非常小的愿望。”

“那么，好吧。”赛米德说，用它的柄眼看着罗伯特。“先来实现这个小愿望吧。”

“不能让马莎知道愿望的事。”罗伯特说，“我的意思是她不能看出我们有什么变化。你能每天对每个愿望都这样办吗？”

赛米德变大了一点儿，然后又变小了。“我把那个办好了。”它说，“这容易。下一个愿望是什么？”

“我们希望，”罗伯特慢慢地说，“变得非常有钱。”

“你们想要多少钱？”赛米德问道。“这当然对你们没什么好处，”它在心里默念着。“好吧，要多少——还有，想要金子还是钞票？”

“请给我们金子，”罗伯特说，“几百万！”

“满满一砾石坑，行了吧？”赛米德说，听起来它不耐烦了。“可在我开始之前先走开，不然你们会被压死的。”

它把细胳膊变得很长并挥动起来。孩子们害怕了，尽快地跑到上边路上去。在那儿时他们扭头看了看。他们不得不闭上眼睛，再慢慢睁开。砾石坑满满的，到顶上都是闪闪发光的、崭新的金币！

孩子们站着，嘴巴张着，谁也没说话。

然后罗伯特将一块金币放在手里看着。“和英国钱不一样。”他说。

“唔，那没关系。是金的。”西里尔说，“别忘了太阳落下去的时候它们就都没了。快点儿！尽量往兜里装，然后去把它们花掉。”

所以他们都往兜里装金币，然后朝村子走去。可金子很沉，一会儿他们就又累又热。他们决定在村里买点喝的，然后再继续赶往罗彻斯特城去。

西里尔走进商店，其他孩子在外边等着。可是当西里尔拿着一瓶柠檬汽水回来时，他说：“我得付我自己的 真钱。他们看见所有这些金币时不肯找钱。”

“那我去 试着用这金子买点东西。”安西娅说，“我们需要一辆马套二轮单马车。来吧。”

安西娅走过去和一个有马套二轮单马车的人谈起来，别的孩子等着。几分钟后她回来了，看起来很得意的样子。“我可不像西里尔那么傻。”她说，“我只拿出一块金币，而不拿出所有的金币，那个人说他把我们拉到罗彻斯特去并等着我们。”

在去罗彻斯特的路上他们没有讲话。他们计划着怎样花他们的金子，而且他们不想在赶车人面前谈论。

可是当他们兜里装着大约一千两百块金币到了罗彻斯特时，他们发现要花掉这些金币很困难。安西娅想买一顶很漂亮的帽子，可店里的那个女人很奇怪地先看看金币，再看看安西娅。

“我不要那个。”她说，“这不是现行的英国货币。”

他们去了一个又一个商店，可是没有人要他们的金子。“这是因为我们的手脏，我们自己看起来也不整洁。人们认为这金子是我们偷的。”安西娅说。

当他们试图买一辆马套四轮马车时，事情就更糟了。西里尔把他的金币给那人看，那人朝他的儿子喊：“叫警察来！”

“这是我们的钱，”西里尔气愤地说，“我们不是贼。”

“那你从什么地方搞到它的？”那人说。

“一个沙精给我们的。”简说，“他每天为我们实现一个愿望，而且都实现了。”

那人慢慢地摇摇头。“天啊，天啊，”他说，“偷东西，然后又编故事。”

这时警察来了，听了金币的事他对这四个孩子说：“跟我走。我带你们去警察局！”

孩子们很生气，很不快。可是警察沿路跟在他们后边，他们逃跑不了。他们低着头，因为不愿让别人看到。突然罗伯特撞到了人身上。“罗伯特，你们干什么去了？”一个声音喊道。原来是马莎和小弟弟！

警察对马莎解释了这一切。西里尔只得从兜里拿出金子给她看。

“我什么也没看见——只是两只脏手。”她说，“没有金子。你在说些什么呀？”

于是孩子们记起马莎是看不出这些许愿的事的。

到警察局时，天快黑了。警察解释了金子的事，巡长说：“好吧，让我们看看。”

西里尔把手伸进兜里——可兜里是空的！其他孩子把手伸进兜里，也都是空的！当然了，太阳一落下山去所有这些变出来的金币就没有了！

“他们是怎么搞的？”那警察叫起来。

马莎很生他的气。“我告诉过你没有什么金子。”她喊道，“你会为此触霉头的。竟然说这些可怜的小孩子是小偷！”

可她也很生孩子们的气。“你们自己在城里干什么呢？”在警察局外她对他们说。

她把孩子们带回家，早早地就叫他们睡觉了。





3Wings


Wings

The next day was very wet. It rained all day and the children could not go to see the Psammead. They stayed at home and wrote letters to their mother. But none of them told her about the Psammead. And the day after that, their Uncle Richard came and took them out, so they did not see the Psammead for two days. But Anthea spent a lot of time thinking about what to wish for.

The next morning, while Martha was busy with Baby, the children left the house quietly and went to see the Psammead. On the way, Anthea said to the others, 'I know what we can ask for — wings !'

The others were silent for a minute, but then they all agreed that they too would like to have wings.

They found the Psammead easily. 'I wish we all had beautiful wings to fly with,' Anthea said.

The Psammead made itself very big and then went small again. The children felt strange for a minute and when they looked, they saw that they had beautiful soft wings of many colours. They moved them about and jumped up and down, and soon they could see the green fields and sunny woods below them and the blue sky above. They could fly! It was wonderful, and they flew over the woods and trees, the towns and villages, for a long time. But they began to get hungry.

Just then they saw below them some trees full of large red plums. 'We mustn't steal,' Cyril said.

'We've got wings,' Jane answered quickly, 'so we're birds. It's all right for birds to take things. Birds can't steal.'

So they flew down onto the trees, and they ate as many of the plums as they could.

They were finishing the plums when they saw a very angry little fat man, who was hurrying through the trees. They were his plums and the poor man thought that boys from the village were stealing them. But when he saw that the children had wings, his mouth fell open and his face went green. Anthea did not want to steal anything, of course, so she flew down and pushed some money into his pocket.

'Don't be afraid,' she said. 'We've had some of your plums. We thought that it wasn't stealing, but now I'm not so sure. So that was some money to pay for them.'

The little man sat there on the ground and looked up into the sky. 'Talking birds! Children with wings! This is a lesson for me. From now on, I'm going to live a better life,' he said. And he went into the house and was very kind to his wife.

Plums are very nice, of course, but you soon feel hungry again. So the children stopped first at one house, then another, to ask for something to eat. They didn't get anything because everyone was afraid of them and screamed and ran away when they saw them. By four o'clock they were getting very tired and hungry, so they flew down onto the roof of a church, to think what to do.

'We can't possibly fly all the way home without something to eat,' said Robert.

In the end they decided to take some food from the vicar's house next to the church.

'He's a good man. He'll understand. We'll leave some money for the food,' Cyril said, 'and a note saying that we're sorry.'

Cyril got in through the window and gave the food to the others, who were outside. There was some cold meat, half a cold chicken, some bread and a bottle of soda-water. Then they all flew back up onto the church roof to eat it. They were very hungry, so they really enjoyed it. But when you are very hungry, and then you eat a big meal and sit in the hot sun on a roof, it is very easy to fall asleep. And so they did — while the sun slowly went down in the west.

They slept for a long time. When they woke up it was dark — and, of course, they had no wings.

'We must get home,' Cyril said. 'There's a door over there. That's the way down.'

But when they tried the door, they found that it was locked from the other side. They were on top of the church and they had no wings! How were they going to get down?

Anthea put her arm round Jane, who was beginning to cry. 'It will only be for one night,' she said.

Then Cyril said, 'I know. Let's shout! The lights are on in the vicar's house. Someone will hear us and get us down.'

So they shouted and screamed as loudly as they could, and the people in the house heard them. The vicar ran out with his servant.

'Someone is murdering somebody in the church!' the vicar said, afraid. 'Perhaps it's the thief who stole the cold chicken and things.'

But they could not understand why the voices were coming from the sky. So the children shouted, 'We're up here — on top of the church!'

The two men were still afraid, but, slowly and carefully, they went up the stairs inside the church. When they came to the top, the vicar shouted through the closed door, 'How many of you are there? Have you got guns?'

'There are four of us, and, no, we haven't got guns,' Cyril answered.

Slowly, the vicar opened the door.

'Good Heavens!' he cried. 'They're children!'

'Oh, please take us down,' cried Jane.

So the vicar and his servant took them down and into the vicar's house. Of course, the vicar wanted to know why the children were on the church roof.

'We went up there because we wanted to see what it was like,' said Cyril. 'But then we couldn't get down again because the door was locked.' He didn't say anything about the wings, of course.

'But who locked the door?' the vicar asked.

'We don't know,' Jane answered. 'But we're not telling you everything.'

'Ah! There's a friend in it, then,' said the vicar's servant man, who was called Beale.

'Yes, but we can't tell you about him,' said Anthea, thinking of the Psammead. 'We really are very sorry, and please, can we go home now?'

The vicar still did not understand, but he was a kind man, so he sent the children home in a carriage with his servant. Martha, of course, was very angry with them, but Mr Beale explained everything very well. He was a good-looking young man with a nice smile, and after a while Martha forgot to be angry.

So the day ended happily after all.

wing n. the organ of a bird by which it flies. 翼；翅。

plum n. 李子。

pay for give money for. 为……付款。

in the end finally; at last. 最后；最终。

vicar n. 牧师。

next to in the closest place to. 紧挨着；在……旁。

note n. a short letter. 短信；便条。

eat a big meal have a good meal. 美餐一顿；大吃一顿。

in the hot sun 在骄阳下。

on adv. in use; lit. （灯）亮着。

servant n. somebody who works in another person's house. 仆人。

stair n. steps from one floor of a building to another. 楼梯。

through adv. from end to end or side to side of. 从一边到另一边。

Good Heavens! （表示吃惊）天哪！

after all at last. 毕竟；终于。





3 　翅膀


第二天外面很湿。雨下了一天，孩子们不能去看赛米德。他们待在家里给母亲写信。可谁也没把赛米德的事告诉她。又过了一天，他们的理查德叔叔来了，并带他们出去了，所以他们两天没见赛米德。可安西娅花了很多时间想她该许些什么愿。

再一天的早上，马莎正忙着照顾小弟弟时，孩子们悄悄离开家去看赛米德。在路上安西娅对大家说：“我知道我们希望要什么了——翅膀！”

一时别人都没说话，可然后他们都赞成，他们也愿意长出翅膀。

他们没费劲就找到了赛米德。“我希望我们都有美丽的、可以用以飞翔的翅膀。”安西娅说。

赛米德把自己变得非常大，然后又变小。一时孩子们觉得有些异样，可当他们一看，他们看见自己已长出了五颜六色的、软软的、美丽的翅膀。他们拍着翅膀跳上跳下，很快看见他们下方绿色的田野和阳光照耀着的小树林以及上方蔚蓝色的天空。他们会飞了！这太棒了。他们飞过树林、城乡，飞了好久。可他们开始饿了。

正在这时他们看见下面有些树，树上满是又大又红的李子。“我们可不能偷啊。”西里尔说。

“我们长了翅膀，”简很快地答道，“所以我们就是鸟 。鸟拿点东西没关系。鸟不会偷。”

所以他们飞下来落在树上，尽情地大吃李子。

他们正要吃完的时候，突然看见一个非常生气的小矮胖子。他正急急忙忙地在树间穿梭。那是他的 李子，那可怜的人认为是村里的孩子们在偷他的李子。但是当他看见这几个孩子长着翅膀时，他张大了嘴巴，脸色苍白。安西娅当然不愿偷东西，所以她飞下来把一些钱塞在他兜里。

“别怕，”她说，“我们吃了你的一些李子。我们起初觉得这不是偷，可现在我也不敢那么肯定。所以那是付给你的些李子钱。”

那个胖子坐在那儿地上，仰望着天空。“会说话的鸟！长翅膀的孩子！这对我可是一课。从今以后，我要过得好点儿。”他说。他进房里去，对他的妻子很和蔼。

李子当然很好吃，可很快你就又饿了，所以孩子们在一幢又一幢房子前停下来，想要些东西吃。他们什么也没得到，因为所有的人见到他们时都很害怕，尖叫着跑开了。到4点时他们变得又累又饿，于是就飞落在教堂的屋顶上，想想怎么办。

“我们要是没有东西吃，就不可能飞回家去。”罗伯特说。

最后他们决定从紧挨着教堂的牧师家里拿些食物。

“他是好人。他会理解的。我们留些食品钱，”西里尔说，“再留张便条说我们很抱歉。”

西里尔从窗子进去，把食物拿给在外边的其他孩子。有些冷肉、半只冷鸡、一些面包和一瓶汽水。然后他们全飞回到教堂房顶上吃起来。他们很饿，所以吃得很香。可是当你很饿的时候大吃了一顿、又在屋顶上晒着太阳时，那是很容易睡着的。他们就睡着了——这时太阳慢慢地从西边落下去。

他们睡了好长时间。他们醒来的时候天黑了——当然了，他们也没有翅膀了。

“我们得回家了。”西里尔说，“那儿有个门。那是下去的路。”

可他们试着开门时才发现门是从另一面锁上的。他们在教堂顶上，又没有了翅膀！他们怎么下去呢？

安西娅用单臂挽住简，简这时已开始哭起来了。“只不过待一夜，”她说。

接着西里尔说：“我知道了。我们喊吧！牧师的家里有灯光。会有人听见并帮我们下去的。”

所以他们用最大的声音喊叫起来，房子里的人听见了他们的叫声。牧师和他的仆人跑了出来。

“教堂里有人在杀人！”牧师害怕地说，“可能是偷了冷鸡和别的东西的小偷。”

可他们不明白为什么声音是从空中传来的。于是孩子们就嚷：“我们在这儿——在教堂顶上！”

这两个人还很害怕，可他们慢慢地、小心地从教堂内的楼梯走上来。当他们到了顶上时，牧师在锁着的门的另一边叫道：“你们几个人？有枪吗？”

“我们四个人；没有，我们没有枪。”西里尔回答。

牧师慢慢地打开门。

“天哪！”他叫道，“是些孩子！”

“哦，请带我们下去吧。”简哭着说。

牧师和他的仆人带他们下来，进了牧师屋里。当然喽，牧师想知道孩子们为什么在教堂顶上。

“我们上那儿去是因为我们想看看那是什么样子。”西里尔说，“可是我们下不来了，因为门被锁上了。”关于翅膀的事他当然什么都没说。

“可谁锁的门？”牧师问。

“不知道。”简说，“可我们不会把一切都告诉你的。”

“啊！那么是有个朋友参与其中吧。”牧师的男仆说。他叫比伊尔。

“是的，可我们不能告诉你他的事。”安西娅说，想起了赛米德。“我们真的非常 抱歉；还有，请问，我们可以回家了吗？”

牧师仍然不明白，可是他是个好心的人，所以他让仆人用马车送孩子们回家。马莎当然十分生他们的气，可是比伊尔先生把事情解释得很好。他是个漂亮的、脸上带着愉快笑容的青年，不一会儿马莎就忘了生气了。

所以，这一天总算快乐地结束了。





4Bigger than the Baker's Boy


Bigger than the Baker's Boy

The next morning Martha said that the children could not go out. 'You can stay in and be good,' she said.

'There's something that we all want,' said Robert. 'Can I just go out for half an hour to get it?' And Martha, who was really very kind, said that he could.

Of course, they all wanted the day's wish. So Robert hurried to the sand-pit.

The Psammead was waiting for him, but when Robert tried to think of a really good wish, he couldn't, and the others were not there to help him.

'Hurry up,' the Psammead said. 'I can't wait all day.'

'Oh dear,' Robert said. 'I wish that we didn't have to come here to get our wish ... Oh, don't!'

But it was too late. The Psammead was already making itself big.

'There!' it said. 'That wasn't easy, but I've done it. You don't need to come here to have your wish.'

Robert thanked the Psammead and then hurried back to tell the other children. 'We must wish for something really good tomorrow,' he said.

The next morning they thought and thought, but they couldn't think of a really good wish, so they decided to go to the gravel-pit. Suddenly they saw a baker's boy, who was coming along the road with his basket of bread, and they decided to play a game with him.

'Stop!' cried Cyril.

'Your money or your life!' shouted Robert.

And they stood on each side of the baker's boy.

The baker's boy, who was tall and large, was not very interested and he pushed them both away.

'Don't be stupid!' he said.

But Robert pushed him back and knocked him over. The bread fell out of the boy's basket and went all over the road. The baker's boy was very angry. He hit Robert and they began to fight. But the baker's boy was much bigger and stronger than Robert. He was also not a nice fighter — he pulled Robert's hair, kicked him in the leg, and hit him hard in the stomach. Then he picked up his bread, put it back in the basket, and went on his way.

Cyril wanted to help Robert, but the girls held his arms and stopped him. So Cyril was angry with the girls, and everybody was unhappy. They went along to the gravel-pit, and Robert began to kick the sand angrily. 'I'll teach that baker's boy a lesson one day,' he said. 'I wish I was bigger than him!'

Just then they saw that the Psammead was sitting behind them, and was watching them!

The next minute, Robert had his wish. He was bigger than the baker's boy! Much, much bigger! He was now more than three metres tall! He was not pleased because he looked very strange next to the others, who were still small.

The others felt sorry for him then, and asked the Psammead for another wish. But the Psammead was very cross and unhelpful. 'Why don't you think before you wish?' it said. 'He's a wild, noisy boy, and he can stay like that for the day. It will do him good. Now go away and leave me alone!'

The others turned back to their enormous brother. 'What are we going to do?' They asked.

'First,' said Robert, 'I'm going to get that baker's boy!' And because he had very long legs, he arrived at the bottom of the hill long before the baker's boy, who was stopping at the houses along the road to leave the bread.

Robert hid behind a haystack and waited for the boy. When he saw the baker's boy coming, he jumped out from behind the haystack and the boy's mouth fell open in surprise. Then Robert took hold of him and put him on top of the haystack.

'Now get down from there, if you can!' Robert said.

It was very late when the baker's boy got back to the shop, and the baker was very angry !

Then Robert and the others went home, and down to the bottom of the garden. Anthea asked Martha to bring their lunch out there. She knew that Robert was too big to get into the house. Of course, Martha could not see that Robert was much bigger than before, and she only gave him as much meat and potatoes as usual — and no more. Poor Robert was very hungry.

The others were feeling unhappy too because there was a fair in town and they wanted to go to it. 'We can't go anywhere now,' Cyril said. 'Not with Robert like this.'

Suddenly Jane cried, 'I know! Let's take Robert to the fair! Someone there will pay us to show him to people. We can make a lot of money.'

The others thought that this was a good plan, and they left at once. When they arrived, they asked to see the head man. His name was Bill, and when he saw Robert, he got very excited.

'How much do you want for him?' he asked.

'You can't buy me,' said Robert, 'but I'll come and show myself this afternoon, if you give me fifteen pounds — and some food!'

'Right!' Bill agreed.

So Bill took Robert inside one of the big fair tents and gave him something to eat. But while Robert was eating, Bill put men outside to stop him from escaping.

Then Bill stood outside the tent and began to shout to the crowds. 'Come and see the biggest man in the world!' he cried.

Very soon, people began to stop and listen. A young man and his girlfriend were the first to go and look at Robert. They paid their money to Bill and went in. The people outside heard a loud scream from the girl, and then they all wanted to go in too.

Soon Robert was the most exciting thing to see at the fair, and Bill was making a lot of money. 'Much more than fifteen pounds!' Cyril said to the girls.

Poor Robert got very bored. He had to shake hands with everybody and talk, to show that he was real. And how could he escape at the end of the day? 'They'll kill us when I go small again,' he said.

Cyril thought for a minute. Then he said, 'I've got a plan,' and he went outside the tent to talk to Bill. 'Look here,' he said, 'my brother must be alone when the sun goes down. He gets very strange and angry then. I don't know why, but you must leave him alone, or he'll hurt someone.'

Bill was not very happy about this, but he agreed, and when the sun went down, they left Robert alone. Robert quickly got out under the back wall of the tent, and no one knew who he was because he was just a small boy again.

The children ran all the way home — and we do not know what Bill said when he found that Robert was not there!

baker n. person who makes bread or sells bread. 面包师。

hurry up (cause to) be quick. 快点。

There! int. （语气词，用以暗示说话者是对的，或用以表示胜利、沮丧等，依上下文而定）好啦！你瞧！

play a game with sb. 捉弄某人。

both pron. the two，not only the one but also the other。 （此处是同位语）二者；二者都。

knock sb. over hit sb. very hard and make him fall over. 击倒（某人）；打倒（某人）；推倒（某人）。

much adv. （修饰比较级时）更加……；……得多。

pull v. draw. 拉；拽；拖；扯。

kick v. hit someone or something with your foot. 踢。

pick up lift up. 捡起；拾起。

along adv. （与动词连用，表示向前移动，常与on 同义）沿着。

teach sb. a lesson punish sb. for sth. he has done to make sure that he does not do it again. 教训某人一顿。

turn back (cause to) return. 回到；返回。

enormous adj. large; very great. 极大的；巨大的。

haystack n. a large pile of hay. 大干草堆。

too… to do sth. so... that one cannot do sth. 太……以致不能……。

fair n. kind of market, where you can buy things, play games, watch interesting things, etc. 集市。

make a lot of money 挣一大笔钱；赚一大笔钱。

head man person in charge. 负责人（此处译为“班主”）。

show oneself 展览自己；让人看。

pound n. British unit of money. （英国货币单位）英镑。

escape v. get free; get away. 逃脱；逃走。

crowd n. large number of people together. 人群。

Look here! （常用以引人注意）看这里！嘿！喂！





4 　比面包师的儿子个子大


第二天早上马莎说孩子们不可以出去。“你们可以待在家里，乖乖的。”她说。

“有个东西我们都想要。”罗伯特说，“我能出去半个小时把它取来吗？”马莎的确是非常好心的，就答应了他。

当然他们都希望实现那一天的愿望。所以罗伯特急忙向沙坑跑去。

赛米德在等着他，但是罗伯特想要想出一个真正好的愿望时却想不出来了，而其他孩子又不在那儿不能帮他。

“快点，”赛米德说，“我可不能等一整天。”

“天啊，”罗伯特说，“但愿我们不用跑到这儿来实现我们的愿望……噢，不！”

但是已经晚了。赛米德已经把自己变大了。

“好啦！”它说，“那可不容易呀，可我办好了。你们用不着来这儿实现愿望了。”

罗伯特谢过赛米德后急忙回去告诉别的孩子。“明天，我们得有个真正妙的愿望。”他说。

第二天早上，他们想呀想呀，可也想不出一个真正的好愿望，所以他们决定到砾石坑去。突然他们看见面包师的儿子，他正拿着一篮子面包走过来，于是他们决定和他开个玩笑。

“站住！”西里尔喊。

“拿钱或拿命来！”罗伯特喊。

他们分别站在面包师的儿子的两侧。

面包师的儿子又高又大，对此不感兴趣，把他俩都推开了。

“别犯傻了！”他说。

可是罗伯特把他推搡回来并把他打倒了。面包从篮子里掉出来，撒了一地。面包师的儿子非常生气。他打了罗伯特一下，俩人打起架来。可面包师的儿子比罗伯特大得多，也强壮得多。他也不是个有教养的斗士——他揪罗伯特的头发，踢他的腿，使劲打他的肚子。然后他拣起面包，把它放回篮子里，又上路了。

西里尔想帮助罗伯特，但女孩子们拉着他的胳膊阻止了他。所以西里尔生她们的气；大家都不高兴。他们一起向砾石坑走去；罗伯特开始生气地踢沙子。“早晚有一天我要教训教训面包师的儿子。”他说，“真希望我比他个子高！”

就在这时，他们看见赛米德正坐在他们后面注视着他们！

罗伯特的愿望马上实现了。他比面包师的儿子个子还高，高得多得多！他现在有三米多高！他不高兴，因为待在其他几个孩子身旁他看起来很古怪，他们还是那么小。

其他孩子于是为罗伯特感到遗憾，要赛米德再实现一个愿望。但赛米德很生气，不肯帮忙。“为什么你不事先想好？”它说，“他是个放肆的、吵吵闹闹的男孩子，就让他整个白天都这个样子吧。这对他有好处。现在走开吧，别打扰我了！”

这几个孩子转身回到他们的大个子兄弟那里。“我们怎么办呢？”他们问。

“首先，”罗伯特说，“我要去找面包师的儿子！”因为他的腿很长，所以他远比面包师的儿子早到山脚下；那时那男孩还在沿路一家家地送面包呢。

罗伯特藏在一个干草堆后，等着那男孩子。他看见那面包师的儿子走来时，就从草堆后边跳了出来，那男孩惊奇地张大嘴巴。罗伯特抓住他，把他放在草堆顶上。

“你能下来就从那儿下来吧！”罗伯特说。

面包师儿子回到店里时已很晚了，面包师很生气！

罗伯特和其他几个孩子回到家，一直走到花园尽头。安西娅要马莎把午饭拿到外边那里去。她知道罗伯特个子太高进不了屋子。当然了，马莎看不出罗伯特比原来高得多，她只给他与平时一样多的肉和土豆——一点儿也没多给。可怜的罗伯特非常饿。

其他孩子也不高兴，因为城里有集市而且他们想去。“我们现在哪儿也去不了，”西里尔说，“不能带着罗伯特这个样子去。”

突然简叫起来：“我知道了！带罗伯特去集市！那儿有人会为将罗伯特展出而付给我们钱的。我们能挣好多钱。”

其他人觉得这是个好计划，于是他们马上出发了。他们到了时就要见班主。他叫比尔。当他看见罗伯特时，他非常激动。

“你们想把他卖多少钱？”他问。

“你不可以买 我。”罗伯特说，“今天下午我来展览自己，如果你给我15镑——和一些食物的话！”

“好吧！”比尔同意了。

于是比尔把罗伯特带到其中的一个大的集市帐篷里，给他东西吃。可罗伯特吃东西时，比尔在外边安排些人以防止他逃跑。

然后比尔站在帐篷外并开始对着人群叫喊。“来瞧瞧世界上个子最高的人！”他喊道。

很快，人们开始停下来听他说。一个青年和他的女朋友第一个去看罗伯特。他们把钱付给比尔就进去了。外边的人听到女孩一声尖叫，他们就也都想进去了。

不久罗伯特就成了集市上最让人看了感到激动的东西了，而且比尔赚了很多钱。“比15镑多得多！”西里尔对女孩们说。

可怜的罗伯特觉得很厌烦。他得和每一个人握手、讲话，以表示他是真人。还有，天黑时他怎么才能逃跑呢？“我又变小的时候他们会杀死我们的，”他说。

西里尔想了一下。然后他说：“我有一个办法。”他去帐篷外对比尔谈起来。“你听着，”他说，“太阳落下去时我哥哥必须独自一人在那儿。那个时候他既古怪又生气。我也不知道是怎么回事，但你决不可打扰他，不然他会伤着谁。”

对于这一点比尔不太高兴，可他同意了。太阳落下去时，他们将罗伯特一个人留在帐篷里。罗伯特很快地从帐篷后壁下面出来，谁也不认识他，因为他又是个小男孩了。

孩子们一路跑回家——我们不知道比尔发现罗伯特不见了时说了些什么！





5The Last Wish


The Last Wish

The next day there was a letter to say that the children's mother was coming home that afternoon. So they decided to wish for something for their mother. They were busy trying to think of something when Martha came into the room, very excited.

'There were thieves at Lady Chittenden's last night,' she said. 'They took all her jewels! She's got lots of beautiful diamonds — they cost thousands of pounds, I've heard.'

'When I'm older, I'm going to buy Mother jewels like that,' Robert said.

'I'd like Mother to have all Lady Chittenden's beautiful jewels now,' said Jane. 'I wish she could.'

'Oh Jane!' cried the others. 'What have you said?'

'Well, she will have them,' said Robert. 'You've wished! Everyone will think she stole them! We'II have to try to find the Psammead and ask it to take the wish back.'

They hurried down to the gravel-pit, but they could not find the Psammead. So they hurried home again and looked in their mother's room for the jewels, but they were not there yet.

'Well, we'll tell Mother about the Psammead, and she'll give back the jewels when they come,' Anthea said.

Cyril shook his head slowly. 'She isn't going to believe us. Can anyone believe about a Psammead if they haven't seen it? And adults never believe things like that. No, she'll think we are the thieves and we'll all go to prison, and everything will be terrible!'

And that afternoon, when Mother came home, the children ran to meet her, and put their arms round her — and tried to stop her from going upstairs to her room.

'But I must take my coat off, and wash my hands!' she cried, laughing. And she went up to her room.

The children went after her — and there, on the table, was a green box. Mother opened it.

'Oh, how beautiful!' she cried.

It was a ring. A beautiful diamond ring.

'Perhaps it's a surprise present from Father,' she said. 'But how did it get here?'

But then she found a diamond necklace — and brooches — and bracelets. There were jewels in every cupboard in her room. The children began to look unhappy, and Jane began to cry.

Mother was no longer smiling. 'Jane, what do you know about this?' she said slowly. 'The true story, please.'

'We met a sand-fairy, Mother,' Jane began.

'Don't be stupid, Jane,' Mother said angrily.

'Some thieves stole all Lady Chittenden's jewels from her house last night,' Cyril said quickly. 'Perhaps these are her jewels!'

Then Mother called for Martha. 'Have any strangers been in this room, Martha?' she asked.

'Yes, but it was just my young man,' Martha answered, afraid. 'He was moving a heavy cupboard for me.' (This, of course, was Mr Beale, the vicar's nice young servant, who was now very friendly with Martha. )

So, of course, Mother thought that he was one of the thieves. She would not listen to the children and decided to go at once into town to tell the police. The children could not stop her.

'This is terrible!' said Anthea. 'Poor Martha! And poor Mr Beale — he isn't a thief! What are we going to do?' Then she cried, 'Come on! We must find the Psammead!'

They all hurried down to the gravel-pit, and this time they found the Psammead, sitting on the sand and enjoying the evening sun. When it saw them, it tried to get away, but Anthea put her arms round it. 'Dear, kind Psammead ...' she began.

'Oh, you want something, don't you?' it said. 'Well, I can't give you any more wishes today.'

'Don't you like giving wishes?' Anthea asked.

'No, I don't,' he said. 'Go away and leave me alone!'

But Anthea went on. 'Listen,' she said. 'If you do what we want today, we'll never ask you for another wish.'

'I'll do anything for that,' it said. 'I really don't enjoy giving wishes. It's very hard work, you know, and I get so tired.'

'Well, first I wish that Lady Chittenden will find that she has never lost her jewels.'

The Psammead got bigger, and then went small again. 'Done!' it said.

'I wish that Mother won't get to the police.'

'Done!' the Psammead said again.

'And I wish,' said Jane suddenly, 'that Mother and Martha will forget all about the jewels.'

'Done!' the Psammead said, but its voice was tired. 'Now,' it went on, 'will you wish something for me?'

'Can't you give yourself wishes?' asked Cyril.

'Of course not,' the Psammead said. 'Wish that you will never tell anyone about me.'

'Why?' asked Robert.

'Well, you children always ask for stupid things. But adults aren't like that. If they get hold of me, they'll want to wish for real, important things — like free houses for poor people, and new schools for children everywhere in the country, and money to give to old people. Boring things like that. And they'll find a way to keep them after the sun goes down. And what will happen to the world if all those changes come at once? There'll be terrible trouble. So go on, wish it! Quick!'

Anthea said the Psammead's wish, and it got very, very big. When it was small again, it said, 'Now, I'm very tired. Do you want one last wish?'

'Thank you for everything,' said Jane. 'Have a good long sleep — and I wish that we'll see you again someday.'

Then, for the last time, the Psammead went big, then small again. It looked at them all once more with its long eyes, and then dug itself quickly into the sand.

And when they arrived home again, everything was all right. Mother came home and she and Martha remembered nothing, and Lady Chittenden found that her jewels were not lost .

'Will we ever see the Psammead again, do you think?' Jane said to the others, later in the garden.

And, of course, they did, but not in this story. It was in a very, very different place. It was in a ... But I must say no more.

think of consider. 考虑；思索。

jewel n. a very valuable, expensive stone, e. g. a diamond. 非常有价值、昂贵的珠宝（如钻石）。

diamond n. a very expensive, bright, white stone. 钻石。

cost v. 价值……钱；花……钱。

take off remove. 脱掉（衣服）。

necklace n. 项链。

brooch n. 胸针。

bracelet n. 手镯；臂镯。

(be) friendly with sb. like each other. 与某人关系亲密。

get hold of manage to get or find. 抓住；找到。

free adj. costing nothing. 免费的。

boring adj. dull and uninteresting. 无聊的；使人厌倦的。

once more again. 又一次；又一遍。

ever adv. （用于疑问句中以增强语势）究竟；到底。





4 　最后一个愿望


第二天来了一封信说孩子们的母亲当天下午要回来了。所以他们决定为妈妈要点什么东西。他们正忙着想要想出些什么的时候，马莎走进房间，很激动的样子。

“昨天夜里奇滕登夫人家里来了贼。”她说，“他们把她的珠宝首饰都拿走了！她有好多美丽的钻石——我听说它们值几千镑呢。”

“我长大了，我要给妈妈买那样的首饰。”罗伯特说。

“我想让妈妈现在就有奇滕登夫人的美丽的珠宝。”简说，“我希望她能有。”

“噢，简！”其他的孩子叫起来，“你说了些什么呀？”

“哦，她将会 有的。”罗伯特说，“你已经许愿了！大家会认为是她偷的！我们得试着找到赛米德，让它把愿望收回去。”

他们急忙跑到砾石坑，可是找不到赛米德。所以他们又急忙回家，在母亲房里找珠宝，可珠宝还不在那里。

“嗯，我们告诉妈妈赛米德的事，他们来时她会把珠宝还给他们的。”安西娅说。

西里尔慢慢地摇头。“她不会相信我们的。没见过赛米德时人怎会相信呢？何况大人们从来不相信那类事情。不，她会认为我们是贼，我们都会进监狱，一切会糟得很！”

那天下午，母亲回家来了，孩子们跑着去迎接她，拥抱她——并且不想让她上楼回自己房间去。

“可我得脱掉外衣、洗洗手啊！”她笑着大声说。于是她上楼回自己的房间去了。

孩子们跟着她——在那里，桌子上有个绿盒子。母亲打开了它。

“哟，真漂亮！”她喊道。

那是只戒指。一只美丽的钻石戒指。

“可能是你父亲给我的意外礼物，”她说，“可它是怎么送到这儿来的？”

可后来她找到一条钻石项链——还有许多胸针——还有许多手镯。她房间的每个柜子里都有珠宝。孩子们开始愁眉苦脸的，简哭起来了。

母亲不再微笑了。“简，关于这些你知道什么？”她慢慢地讲道，“请讲真话。”

“我们遇到了一个沙精，妈妈。”简开始说。

“别说傻话，简。”母亲生气地说。

“昨天夜里一些贼从奇滕登夫人家里偷走了她所有的珠宝。”西里尔很快地说，“这些可能是她的 珠宝！”

于是母亲叫来马莎。“有陌生人到这房间来过吗，马莎？”她问道。

“有，可只有我的男友。”马莎回答，她害怕了。“他为我搬一个很重的柜子。”（当然这是比伊尔先生了，那个牧师的年轻漂亮的仆人，他现在对马莎很好。）

所以，母亲当然认为他是小偷之一了。她不听孩子们的话，决定马上进城去报告警察。孩子们阻止不了她。

“这太糟了！”安西娅说，“可怜的马莎！还有可怜的比伊尔先生——他不是小偷！我们怎么办？”然后她喊道：“快！我们必须找到那个赛米德！”

他们都急忙朝砾石坑跑去，这次他们找到了赛米德，它正坐在那儿看夕阳。看见他们时它想走开，但安西娅搂住它。“亲爱的、好心的赛米德……”她开腔道。

“哦，你想要东西，是不是？”它说，“可我今天再不能实现你的愿望了。”

“你不喜欢帮人实现愿望吗？”安西娅问。

“对，不喜欢。”它说，“走开，别打扰我！”

可安西娅接着说了下去。“听着，”她说，“如果你实现了我们今天的愿望，我们就再也不要别的了。”

“那样的话我可以做任何事情。”它说，“我实在是不喜欢实现人们的愿望。这是件难事，你知道，我真是精疲力尽了。”

“唔，首先我希望奇滕登夫人发现她的珠宝从没丢。”

赛米德变大，又变小。“办好了！”它说。

“希望妈妈别到警察局去。”

“办好了！”赛米德又说。

“我还希望，”简突然说，“妈妈和马莎把珠宝的事全忘了。”

“办好了！”赛米德说，可它的声音显得很累。“现在你们能为我许愿吗？”

“你不能为自己实现愿望吗？”西里尔问。

“当然不能。”赛米德说，“希望你们别把我的事告诉任何人。”

“为什么？”罗伯特问。

“唉，你们孩子们老要愚蠢的东西。大人们可不那样。要是他们抓住我，他们就希望要真正的、重要的东西——比方给穷人免费住房啦，给全国各地的孩子建新学校啦，给老人们钱啦。就那种使人厌烦的事。而且他们会想办法在日落后留住它们。如果所有的那些变化立刻发生，世界会怎么样？那可就会有麻烦了。所以接着许愿！快点！”

安西娅说出了赛米德的愿望，它变得非常非常大。当它又变小了时，它说：“现在我很累了。你们想要最后一个愿望吗？”

“感谢你做的一切。”简说，“美美地睡一觉——我还希望有一天能再见到你。”

然后赛米德最后一次变大又变小。它用柄眼把他们全又看了一遍，然后很快地钻进沙子里去了。

当他们又到家里时，一切都是好好的。母亲回到家，她和马莎什么都忘了，而且奇滕登夫人发现她的珠宝没丢。

“你们认为我们究竟还能再见到赛米德吗？”晚些时候倚在花园里对其他孩子们说。

当然喽，他们又见到它了，可不是在这个故事里见到的。是在与这里很不一样的一个地方。那是在一个……可我不该再多说了。





Exercises


A Checking your understanding

Chapter 1 Who said these words?

1 'What is it? Shall we take it home?'

2 'Perhaps I'll answer you and perhaps I won't.'

3 'I wish we were all very, very beautiful.'

4 'Go away, or I'll send for the police.'

Chapter 2 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

1 The gravel-pit was full to the top with gold coins.

2 Cyril bought the bottle of lemonade with a gold coin.

3 Anthea bought a very nice hat with the gold.

4 The man sent for the police because he thought the children were thieves.

Chapter 3 Write answers to these questions.

1 Why did Jane think it was all right to take the plums?

2 What did they leave in the vicar's house?

3 Why couldn't they get down from the church roof?

4 How did the children get home?

Chapter 4 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

1 Robert did not win the fight with the baker's boy.

2 The Psammead felt sorry for Robert when he was three metres tall.

3 Robert went after the baker's boy and knocked him down.

4 People at the fair paid fifteen pounds to see Robert.

Chapter 5 Find answers to these questions.

1 What did Jane wish for?

2 Who did Mother think was one of the thieves?

3 Why did the Psammead agree to give them lots of wishes?

4 Did the children ever see the Psammead again?

B Working with language

1 Complete these sentences with information from the story.

1 When the children were very beautiful, Baby cried because ...

2 The children were hungry and wanted their lunch, but Martha ...

3 The woman in the hat shop wouldn't take the gold because ...

4 When the little fat man saw that the children had wings,...

5 The children couldn't fly home without something to eat so ...

6 The children slept on the church roof while ...

2 Put these sentences about Chapter 4 in the right order.

1 He ran to the bottom of the hill and hid behind a haystack.

2 He said he wished he was bigger than the baker's boy.

3 Then he put the baker's boy on top of the haystack.

4 Robert had a fight with the baker's boy, who was tall and large.

5 The next minute, Robert was more than three metres tall.

6 When Robert lost the fight, he was very angry.

7 When the baker's boy arrived, Robert jumped out.

8 The Psammead heard this and gave Robert his wish.

C Activities

1 The children had thirteen wishes in the story. What were they? Make a list and then decide which was the best one, and which was the worst one.

2 You are Anthea or Robert. Write a letter to your best friend and tell her or him about the Psammead and what happened.

3 The Psammead meets another Psammead and tells it about the children. Write down what they say.

4 You have found a Psammead, who agrees to give you one wish a day. Write down ten wishes. Remember that they will finish when the sun goes down.

京权图字：01-2006-3291

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

风中奇缘＝Pocahontas／（英）维卡里（Vicary，T.）改写；金慧莉译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6815-2

Ⅰ．①风…　Ⅱ．①维…②金…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物　②中篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第104934号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 田　娜

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年8月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6815-2

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


1607年，英国人来到北美洲的弗吉尼亚，他们想在这片新大陆上开始崭新的生活，并在这里安家落户。他们建造了一座城镇，取名为“詹姆斯敦”，它是以英格兰国王詹姆斯一世的名字命名的。

在这些英国人看来，弗吉尼亚是一个全新的世界，而对于北美洲的印第安人来说，就没什么新鲜的了。印第安人生活在这里，他们的祖祖辈辈们很久前就居住在这里了。这里是他们 的国度，是他们 的家园。印第安人可不喜欢这些来自大洋彼岸的白人们。

在这些英国人当中，有一个叫约翰·史密斯的人乘着一艘小船逆流而上，印第安人发现了他，并把他带到首领波瓦坦酋长那里。印第安人本想杀了他，但波瓦坦有一个漂亮的女儿，名叫波卡洪塔斯。从她凝望着约翰·史密斯那双蓝蓝的眼睛的那一刻起……一段有关两个国家、两个人以及一段不了情的广为人知的故事就这样拉开了序幕。





POCAHONTAS


In 1607 the English come to Virginia, in North America. They want to begin a new life, and to make their home in the New World. They build a town and call it Jamestown, after King James of England.

Virginia is a new world for the English, but it is not new for the Indian people of North America. They live there; their fathers and their grandfathers lived there before them. It is their country, their home. And they do not like these white men from across the sea.

One of the Englishmen, John Smith, goes up the river in a boat, but the Indians find him and take him to the great King, Powhatan. The Indians want to kill him, but Powhatan has a daughter — the beautiful Pocahontas. She looks into John Smith's, blue, blue eyes...and so begins a famous story of two countries, two people, and a love without end.





1The English in Virginia


The English in Virginia

In January 1607 three ships left England and sailed to America. There were a hundred and fifty men on the ships, and they wanted to find a new world in the west — a home in a new and exciting country.

The ships were at sea for four months, and they arrived in Virginia on the 26th April, 1607. After four long months at sea the men were tired, ill, and hungry. But Virginia was beautiful. The sky was blue, and they could see rivers, and flowers, and forests of tall trees. The Englishmen were very happy.

But the Algonquin Indians of Virginia were not happy. They were afraid of the Englishmen and their ships. 'This is our home,' they said. 'We don't want these white men here. We must fight them.'

But some Indians said: 'No, wait. These men are interesting. Let's make friends with them, and learn about them.' So the Indians tried to talk to the Englishmen, and gave them food to eat. The Englishmen gave things to the Indians, too — little knives and pictures and beads.

The Englishmen began to build a little town. They called it Jamestown, because the King of England was called James. They called the river James River, too.

The leaders of the Englishmen were Christopher Newport, Edward Wingfield, and John Smith. They wanted to learn more about Virginia, so Smith and Newport took twenty men and went up the river in a small boat.

The other men stayed in Jamestown with Wingfield. They began to build houses, and to make gardens and fields outside the town.

'The fields are more important than the houses,' said Wingfield. 'And we must work quickly, because it's nearly summer now. We must have corn and vegetables for the winter. '

But it was not easy. The weather was hot, and the men were tired after four months at sea. Some men worked hard, but many sat in the sun, and did nothing. The Indians watched, and waited.

Smith and Newport went a hundred kilometres up the river. They visited Indian villages and talked to a lot of Indians. Some of the Indians were friendly, and some were not. When Smith and Newport came back to Jamestown, Wingfield was very pleased to see them.

'I was afraid for you,' he said. 'But you're not dead!'

'No, of course not,' said Smith. 'What's the matter? '

'It's the Indians,' Wingfield said. 'They're trying to kill us. Yesterday, they nearly killed me !'

'Well, what did you do?' Smith asked. 'Our men have guns, and the Indians are very afraid of guns.'

'But there were hundreds of Indians,' said Wingfield, 'and...we weren't ready. Our guns were on the ships. '

'Why?' asked Smith angrily. 'The men must always be ready; they must carry their guns with them. The Indians tried to kill you because they weren't afraid of you.'

'Yes, but—we must be nice to them,' said Wingfield.

'We can be friendly, but we must be careful first,' said Smith. 'We must build good walls round the town, and put the big guns from the ships on them. Then the Indians can't kill us. '

For a month everyone worked hard. They built walls round the town, and moved the big guns from the ships. But the men were afraid to work in the fields, because of the Indians. And the sun got hotter, and hotter.

In June Newport went back to England with two of the ships. A hundred and five men stayed in Jamestown. They had very little food. The corn from England was now bad, and the new corn in the fields was not ready. The river water was bad too, and soon many of the men were ill with a fever. Forty-six men died that summer.

Some of the men tried to leave Jamestown and go home in the ship, but Smith stopped them. 'We're here to work, and to build a new town,' he said. 'But first, we must find food. There are birds in the sky, fish in the river, animals in the forest — we must kill them and eat them. And we must get corn from the Indians, too. I can do that.'

Smith wasn't afraid of the Indians, but he was always very careful. He carried his gun all the time. Most of the Indians were afraid of Smith, but they liked him too. He was friendly, and he loved their beautiful country. And he learned their language, because he wanted to talk to them and understand them. Often, he gave the Indians little things from England, and they gave him food.

But when winter came, there were only fifty men alive in Jamestown. They had some food, but they needed more. The Virginian winter is long and cold, and fifty men need a lot of food.

In December Smith went up the river in a boat with nine men. Two of the friendly Indians went with them. It was very cold, and the Englishmen were hungry. But Smith was happy and excited.

'I'm going to find food for Christmas,' he said to the men in Jamestown. 'Wait for me here, and work hard! This is a beautiful country, and we're going to stay here! '

sail v. to travel across an area of water in a boat or ship （乘船）航行

be afraid of fearful 害怕

learn about to gain knowledge of sth. 了解

bead n. round pieces of glass. wood, plastic etc. 珠子

outside prep. situated or moving beyond the boundaries of 在……的外面

visit v. go to see and spend some time with (someone) socially or as a guest 拜访

pleased adj. feeling or showing pleasure and satisfaction 高兴的

try v. make an attempt an effort to do something 试图

nice adj. kind 友好的

bad adj.(of food)decayed; （食物）腐烂的；腐败的

alive adj. living, not dead 活着的

1 ．弗吉尼亚的英国人

1607年1月，三艘船驶离英国，一路航行来到了美洲。这些船上共有一百五十人，他们想在西半球找到一块新大陆——在一个令人兴奋的全新国度安家落户。

在大海上飘泊了四个月后，船队终于在1607年4月26日抵达弗吉尼亚。在海上颠簸了漫长的四个月后，人们疲惫不堪、饥病交加。而弗吉尼亚是如此美丽迷人，湛蓝的天空下，到处都可以看到河流、鲜花，还有长满高大树木的森林。这些英国人高兴极了。

然而弗吉尼亚的阿尔冈昆印第安人可高兴不起来。他们害怕英国人和他们的船只。“这是我们的家园，”他们说，“我们可不想让这些白人待在这儿。我们必须与他们战斗。”

但也有一些印第安人却说：“不，等一下。这些人蛮有趣的。我们来跟他们交朋友，了解一下他们。”于是印第安人试着去跟英国人交谈，还给他们食物吃。英国人也给印第安人一些诸如小刀、图画和珠子之类的东西作为回报。

英国人开始建造一座小镇。他们称之为“詹姆斯敦”，因为当时英格兰的国王就叫詹姆斯。他们把河也命名为“詹姆斯河”。

这群英国人的领导者是克里斯托弗·纽波特、爱德华·温菲尔德和约翰·史密斯。他们想更多地了解弗吉尼亚，于是史密斯和纽波特便率二十个人乘一艘小船逆流而上。

温菲尔德带着其他人留在詹姆斯敦。他们开始建造房屋，在小镇外修建花园，开垦田地。

“田地比房屋更重要，”温菲尔德说，“我们必须加快工作速度，因为现在都快到夏季了，我们必须为过冬准备谷物和蔬菜。”

但这并非易事。天气炎热，而且经历了海上四个月的颠簸后，人们都疲惫不堪。其中一些人干活儿很卖力，但还有很多人却坐在太阳底下，无所事事。印第安人在旁边观望着，等待着。

史密斯和纽波特沿河逆流而上行驶了一百公里。他们拜访了印第安人的村落，与很多印第安人交谈。有些印第安人对他们很友好，但也有一些人则不是这样。当史密斯和纽波特回到詹姆斯敦时，温菲尔德非常高兴。

“我很为你们担心，”他说，“你们竟然没死！”

“没有，当然没有了，”史密斯说，“出什么事了？”

“是印第安人，”温菲尔德说，“他们想要杀死我们。就在昨天，他们差点儿杀了我 ！”

“是吗？那你当时做什么了吗？”史密斯问道，“我们的人有枪，而印第安人是很害怕枪的。”

“可是有好几百个印第安人，”温菲尔德说，“再说……我们还没准备好。我们的枪还在船上呢。”

“为什么？”史密斯生气地问道，“我们的人必须时刻准备着，必须随身带枪。印第安人要杀你们是因为他们一点儿都不怕你们。”

“是呀，可是——我们必须要对他们友好。”温菲尔德说道。

“我们可以很友好，但我们首先得小心谨慎，”史密斯说，“我们必须围绕小镇建造坚固的城墙，把船上的大炮架在墙上。这样印第安人就别想杀我们了。”

在接下来的一个月里，每个人都很努力地干活。他们在小镇四周建起了围墙，并把大炮从船上运了过来。但是由于害怕印第安人，人们不敢在田地里劳作。而且天气也越来越炎热了。

6月，纽波特跟随两艘船回了英国。有一百零五人留在了詹姆斯敦。他们的食物极度匮乏。从英国带来的谷物现在已经变质，而田里的新谷物还未长成。河水的水质也很差，很快，许多人都发起了高烧。那年夏天死了四十六个人。

有些人想离开詹姆斯敦，坐船回家，但史密斯制止了他们。“我们来这儿为的是努力工作，建设一座新的城镇，”他说，“可是首先，我们必须找到食物。天上有鸟，河里有鱼，森林中有动物——我们要捕食它们。我们还要从印第安人那里拿到谷物。我能办到。”

史密斯并不害怕印第安人，但他一直都很小心，随时带着枪。大多数印第安人很怕史密斯，但也很喜欢他。史密斯十分友好，也非常热爱印第安人美丽的土地。史密斯还学习印第安人的语言，因为他想和印第安人交谈并了解他们。他经常会送给印第安人一些从英国带来的小礼物，印第安人也会送给他食物。

然而当冬天来临之际，詹姆斯敦只有五十个人还活着。他们倒是存有一些食物，但还远远不够。弗吉尼亚的冬天漫长而寒冷，五十个人需要很多的食物。

12月，史密斯带着九个人乘船沿着河逆流而上。两个友好的印第安人与他们同行。天气非常寒冷，英国人饥肠辘辘。但史密斯却开心而兴奋。

“我要为圣诞节寻找食物，”他对詹姆斯敦的人说，“在这儿等着我吧，你们要努力干活！这是一个非常美丽的地区，我们就准备留在这里了！”





2John Smith and Pocahontas


John Smith and Pocahontas

There were a lot of Indian villages in Virginia, and every village had its Chief. But there was only one King. That was Powhatan, and he was the King of all the Algonquin Indians.

'Tell me about these white men,' Powhatan said to his brother, Opekankanu. 'They are living in my country, and killing my people. I want to see one of them.'

Powhatan's daughter, Pocahontas, heard this. She was thirteen years old. 'What are white men, father?' she asked. 'Are they white because they are ill?'

Powhatan smiled. 'No, little Pocahontas, they aren't ill,' he said. 'They are a new people from over the sea. Perhaps we can see and talk to a white man soon. My brother is going to find one for us.'

The next day Opekankanu went into the forest with two hundred men. They found John Smith's nine men next to their boat by the river. Smith's men were afraid and got out their guns. But Opekankanu's men killed two of them, and the other seven ran away.

John Smith was in the forest with the two Indians. When they heard the noise, they ran back to the boat — and saw two hundred men, with bows and arrows. Then an arrow hit Smith's leg. He quickly took out his gun, and put a friendly Indian in front of his body.

'What do you want?' he asked. 'Don't come near me!'

'King Powhatan wants to see you,' said Opekankanu. 'Give me your gun.'

'No,' Smith said at first. But there were two hundred Indians, and he was one man. So he gave them his gun, and went with Opekankanu to Werowocomoco, the village of King Powhatan.

In the village, everyone came out to see the Englishman. Pocahontas looked at Smith carefully. He was very interesting. He was not very tall, and he had hair on his face. Indian men had no hair on their faces. And his eyes — his eyes were blue! All the men in her village had brown eyes. She looked at Smith's blue eyes for a long time. They were beautiful, the colour of the sky.

Smith smiled at the little girl, and closed one of his eyes for a second. Pocahontas laughed, and then she smiled back at him.

'Why are you in my country, white man?' Powhatan asked. 'Where do you come from? Who is your King?'

Smith told him about England, and King James, and Jamestown. It wasn't easy, because he didn't understand Powhatan's language very well, and Powhatan didn't always understand him. 'We want to live here, and be your friends, Powhatan,' he said. 'But this winter the people of Jamestown are hungry, so we need food.'

Opekankanu was angry. 'These Englishmen cannot live here,' he said to his brother. 'They are taking our land and killing our people with their guns. They want King James of England to be king here, too. They call their town King James's town , and they call our beautiful river King James's river ! But what about us? This is our country ! We live here, and our fathers and grandfathers lived here before us. We don't want the English, or their King James. We must kill them all now!'

'Perhaps,' Powhatan said. 'But let's think first. The English have guns, so we need guns too. I must think carefully about this. Pocahontas, come with me.'

They walked into the forest, and Powhatan asked his daughter, 'What do you think about this Englishman, little Pocahontas?'

'Oh, father, I like him. He has wonderful blue eyes — the colour of the sky.'

'My brother wants to kill him, but I want to know more about these Englishmen first — and you can help me. I'm going to give him to you, little Pocahontas.'

'Give him to me, father?'

'Yes. Listen carefully, now. You must do this...'

They went back to the village. 'Are we going to kill this white man now, Powhatan?' Opekankanu asked.

'Yes,' Powhatan said. 'Bring him here.'

They put John Smith's head on a stone, in front of Powhatan's feet. Then Opekankanu took a big stick, and walked to the stone. Pocahontas looked at her father. He moved his head a little, but did not look at her. Now Opekankanu was next to the stone. John Smith closed his eyes, and waited to die.

Suddenly, he felt warm arms on his face and head. He opened his eyes and saw the face of the young girl, with her beautiful dark eyes.

'No, Opekankanu!' she cried. 'No! I am the King's daughter, and I say no!' She looked at her father. 'Father — don't kill this man — please! Give him to me!'

At first Powhatan said nothing. Then, slowly, he smiled. ' Very well, Pocahontas,' he said. 'You are only thirteen years old, but this white man is not very big. He is a boy with hair on his face. You can have him.'

Angrily, Opekankanu put his stick down.

Pocahontas smiled. 'Come with me, white man,' she said to him. 'You are my Englishman now. Come!'

chief n. a leader or ruler of a people 酋长；族长

king n. the male ruler of an independent region （印第安人部落等的）首领

bow n. a weapon used for shooting arrows 弓

arrow n. a weapon like a thin straight stick with a point at one end 箭

hit v. direct a blow at with one's hand or a tool or weapon 击中

take v. capture or gain possession of by force or military means 夺取

wonderful adj. extremely good, pleasant, or remarkable 奇妙的

stick n. a long, thin object or piece of something 棍；棒

move v. change or cause to change position 动

2 ．约翰·史密斯与波卡洪塔斯

弗吉尼亚有很多印第安人的村落，每一座村子都有自己的酋长。但弗吉尼亚的印第安人只有一位首领，他就是波瓦坦，他是所有阿尔冈昆印第安人的首领。

“给我讲讲这些白人吧，”波瓦坦对自己的兄弟奥皮坎卡努说，“他们现在居住在我的领地里，残害着我的人民。我想见见他们中的一员。”

波瓦坦的女儿波卡洪塔斯听到了他们的话。她当时十三岁。“白人是什么，父亲？”她问道，“他们是因为生病所以皮肤是白的吗？”

波瓦坦笑了。“不是的，小波卡洪塔斯，他们并没有生病，”他说，“他们是来自海外的一个新的民族。或许咱们很快就能见到一个白人，并和他交谈了。我的兄弟会给咱们找到这样一个人。”

第二天，奥皮坎卡努带着两百个人潜入森林。他们发现了河边小船旁约翰·史密斯的那九个手下。史密斯的手下都大惊失色，纷纷掏出了枪。不过奥皮坎卡努的手下还是杀死了他们中的两个人，剩下的七个人四散逃跑。

约翰·史密斯和随行的两个印第安人当时正在森林里。当他们听到响动后，马上跑回船边，看到两百个手持弓箭的人。紧接着，一支箭射中了史密斯的腿。他立刻掏出自己的枪，并把随行的一名印第安友人挟持在身前。

“你们想干什么？”他问，“别靠近我！”

“波瓦坦首领想见见你，”奥皮坎卡努说，“把你的枪给我。”

“不。”史密斯起初拒绝了。但是对方有两百名印第安人，而他只有一个人。于是，他把自己的枪交给对方，并跟奥皮坎卡努一起来到了威尔沃科莫科村——波瓦坦首领所在的村子。

村子里，人人都出来争相观看这个英国人。波卡洪塔斯仔细地端详着史密斯。他长得真有趣！他个子不算高，脸上还长着毛发。印第安男人的脸上是没有毛发的。还有就是史密斯的眼睛，他的双眼竟然是蓝色的！村子里的所有男人都长着棕色的眼睛。她久久地凝望着史密斯那双蓝蓝的眼睛。他的双眸很美，是天空的颜色。

史密斯冲着这个小女孩儿笑了笑，一只眼睛很快地眨了一眨。波卡洪塔斯笑了起来，然后笑咪咪地看着史密斯。

“你为什么会在我的领土，白人？”波瓦坦问道，“你来自何方？谁是你的首领？”

史密斯告诉他有关英国的事情，还有詹姆斯国王和詹姆斯敦。这可并非易事，因为他不太懂波瓦坦的语言，而且波瓦坦也不是总能听懂史密斯在说些什么。“我们想生活在这里，并且成为你们的朋友，波瓦坦，”他说，“可是今年冬天，住在詹姆斯敦的人非常饥饿，所以我们需要食物。”

奥皮坎卡努很生气。“这些英国人不能住在这儿，”他对自己的兄弟说，“他们抢走了我们的土地，枪杀了我们的人民。他们想让英国的詹姆斯国王也成为这里的国王。他们管自己待的城镇叫詹姆斯国王的城镇 ，而且还把我们美丽的河流叫詹姆斯国王的河 ！那我们算什么？这可是我们 的领土！我们生活在这里，而且我们的祖祖辈辈很久前就居住在这里了。我们不要什么英国人，也不要什么詹姆斯国王。我们必须现在就把他们全部都杀死！”

“或许吧，”波瓦坦说，“但我们得先仔细想想。英国人有枪，我们也需要枪。我必须好好想想这件事。波卡洪塔斯，跟我来。”

他们走进了森林，波瓦坦问自己的女儿：“你觉得这个英国人怎么样，小波卡洪塔斯？”

“噢，父亲，我喜欢他。他有一双奇妙的蓝眼睛——那是天空的颜色。”

“我的兄弟想杀了他，但我想先多了解一下这些英国人的事情——你能够帮助我。我会把他交给你，小波卡洪塔斯。”

“把他交给我，父亲？”

“是的。现在仔细听好。你必须这么这么做……”

他们回到村子里。“我们打算杀死这个白人吗，波瓦坦？”奥皮坎卡努问道。

“是的，”波瓦坦回答说，“把他带到这儿来。”

他们把约翰·史密斯的头按在波瓦坦脚前的一块石头上。接着奥皮坎卡努拿起一根大棒，走向那块石头。波卡洪塔斯望着父亲。父亲微微点了一下头，但没有看她。此时此刻奥皮坎卡努已经站在石头旁。约翰·史密斯闭上眼睛，等待死亡的来临。

突然，他感到有一双温暖的手臂护住了自己的脸和头。他睁开眼睛，看到了那位年轻女孩儿的面孔，还有她那双美丽的黑眼睛。

“不要，奥皮坎卡努！”她喊道，“不要！我是首领的女儿，我说不行！”她看着父亲。“父亲，不要杀这个人，求求你了！把他赐给我吧！”

起初波瓦坦什么都没说。然后，他慢慢地笑了。“很好，波卡洪塔斯，”他说，“你只有十三岁，不过这个白人个头也不大。他不过是个脸上长着毛发的男孩儿。你可以得到他。”

奥皮坎卡努生气地放下了手里的大棒。

波卡洪塔斯微笑着。“跟我来，白人，”她对他说道，“你现在是我的英国人了。来呀！”





3A friend for the English


A friend for the English

John Smith stayed with Pocahontas for some days. She learnt some English, and he learnt more of her language. Soon they were good friends.

But Powhatan's men watched Smith carefully, and he could not leave the village. Then one day Powhatan said, 'You can go home to Jamestown, John Smith. But you must give me two of your big guns.'

John Smith did not like this, but he could not say no. So he went back to Jamestown, and Pocahontas, Opekankanu, and some Indians went with him.

In Jamestown Wingfield was not happy. 'We can't give our big guns to the Indians!' he said. 'Then they can kill us, with our guns!'

'It's all right,' said Smith. 'Wait.'

He took Opekankanu and his men to the guns on the town walls. 'Now watch,' he said. He put some gunpowder and some stones in the gun. 'Put your hands over your ears,' he said, 'and look at that tree.'

BANG! Pocahontas closed her eyes. Then she opened them, and looked at the tree. It wasn't there!

'What happened?' she asked. 'Where's the tree? '

'I killed it with this gun,' Smith said. He looked at Opekankanu. 'This gun can kill ten men, Opekankanu. Remember that. So, take your two guns.

But the guns were very big, and of course, the Indians could not move them.

'Look,' said Smith. 'You can't carry these guns through the forest. But I can give you some gunpowder for Powhatan. Here, take it. Be very careful with it.'

'Thank you,' Opekankanu said. 'But one day, we want these big guns too. They are very important for us.'

'Perhaps,' said Smith. 'But we want to be your friends, and friends are better than guns.'

*　　*　　*

That winter, Pocahontas came to Jamestown every week with food for the Englishmen. She learnt many interesting things in Jamestown.

'Look at this, Pocahontas,' John Smith said one day. He had a compass in his hand.

'What is it?' Pocahontas asked. She tried to put her finger on the arrow in the compass, but she couldn't.

'It's a compass. The arrow always points to the north,' Smith said. 'Where is the north? Do you know?'

'Of course I know. All my people know that. '

'Well, look — the arrow in the compass knows it too!'

'Why can't I put my finger on it?'

Smith smiled. 'Because of the glass. You can see through glass, but you can't put your finger through it.'

'Yes,' she said slowly. 'But — what is a compass for?'

'It helps us in our ships when we can't see the sky,' he said. 'Which way do we go? Where is the north? The compass tells us all that.'

Pocahontas was interested in everything. She loved to talk to John Smith, and she learnt many things about England and the English.

*　　*　　*

In March and April 1608, two more ships came to Jamestown. Powhatan asked Pocahontas about them.

'How many Englishmen are there now?' he asked.

'There were thirty-eight before the ships came, father. But now there are about a hundred and fifty.'

'It's spring now. They must sow corn and vegetables in their fields. Are they doing that?'

'Yes, father. But they aren't very good at it. This is a new country for them. They don't understand it.'

'But they must have corn!' Powhatan was angry. 'They need food for the winter. We can't give them our corn every year! And we kill animals, birds, and fish for our food — the English must learn to do that too!'

'They are learning, father,' Pocahontas said. 'But most of these men come from towns in England. They don't know about these things.'

'Well, they live here now, so they must learn, 'said Powhatan. 'Or they must give me guns. We have a lot of food in our village, but we need guns. I can give the Englishmen food, but they must give me guns first. Tell that to your English friends, Pocahontas!'

leave v. go away from 离开

gunpowder n. an explosive substance in the form of powder 火药

compass n. an instrument that shows directions 指南针

point v. direct or aim something 指向

3 ．英国人的朋友

约翰·史密斯与波卡洪塔斯在一起待了一些日子。她学会了一些英语，而他也学会了更多的印第安语。他们很快就成了好朋友。

但是波瓦坦的手下把史密斯看得很紧，他无法离开村子。一天，波瓦坦说：“约翰·史密斯，你可以回到詹姆斯敦。但你必须送给我两门你们的大炮。”

约翰·史密斯并不愿意这样做，但他别无选择。于是波卡洪塔斯、奥皮坎卡努和一些印第安人跟他一同回到了詹姆斯敦。

到了詹姆斯敦后，温菲尔德十分不悦。“我们不能把大炮送给印第安人！”他说，“那样的话，他们就能用我们 的枪炮杀我们了！”

“不会有事的，”史密斯说，“等着瞧吧。”

他带着奥皮坎卡努和随同的印第安人来到了架在城墙上的大炮前。“现在看好了，”他说。他把一些火药和石头塞进了大炮，然后说：“用手掩住耳朵，看着那棵树。”

砰！波卡洪塔斯闭上了眼睛。然后她睁开双眼，看那棵树。树却不见了！

“发生什么事了？”她问道，“树到哪儿去了？”

“我用这门大炮把它给消灭了，”史密斯说。他望着奥皮坎卡努。“这门大炮能杀死十个人，奥皮坎卡努。请记好。好吧，带走你的两门大炮吧。”

但是大炮太大了，印第安人当然没办法挪动它们。

“看，”史密斯说，“你们没法带着这些大炮穿越森林。但我可以让你们带给波瓦坦一些火药。在这儿，拿去吧。可要千万小心这个东西。”

“谢谢，”奥皮坎卡努说，“但总有一天，我们也会需要这些大炮。它们对我们来说非常重要。”

“或许吧，”史密斯说，“但我们希望成为你们的朋友，朋友要比枪炮好多了。”

*　　*　　*

那年冬天，波卡洪塔斯每星期都来詹姆斯敦，给英国人带来食物。她在詹姆斯敦了解到很多有趣的事物。

一天，约翰·史密斯说：“瞧瞧这个，波卡洪塔斯。”他的手里拿着一个指南针。

“这是什么？”波卡洪塔斯问道。她想把手指放到指南针的箭头上，却放不上去。

“这是指南针。它的箭头总是指向北方，”史密斯说，“哪里是北方？你认得出吗？”

“我当然认得出了。我们这儿所有的人都认得出。”

“好吧，看——指南针里的箭头也认得出北方！”

“为什么我不能把手指放到箭头上面？”

史密斯笑了。“因为有玻璃。你可以透过玻璃看到里面，但你的手指却不能透过玻璃触摸到里面。”

“的确是这样，”她慢慢地说道，“不过——指南针是用来做什么的？”

“当我们在船上看不清天空的时候，它就起作用了，”他说，“我们应该走哪一条路？哪儿是北方？指南针会告诉我们这一切。”

波卡洪塔斯对一切都充满了兴趣。她很喜欢与约翰·史密斯交谈，她还了解到很多跟英国和英国人有关的事情。

*　　*　　*

1608年的3月和4月，又有两艘船来到了詹姆斯敦。波瓦坦向波卡洪塔斯问起此事。

“现在有多少个英国人了？”他问道。

“在这些船到来之前有三十八个人，父亲。但目前大约已有一百五十人了。”

“现在是春天。他们一定得在地里种上谷物和蔬菜。他们在种地吗？”

“是的，父亲。但他们不太会种。对他们来说，这是一个新的地区。他们还不太了解这里怎么种地。”

“可他们必须得有谷物呀！”波瓦坦很生气。“他们需要过冬的食物。我们总不能每年都把自己的谷物送给他们吧！我们还靠打猎、射鸟、捕鱼来获取食物——英国人也必须要学会这些才行！”

“他们是在 学习，父亲，”波卡洪塔斯说，“但他们中的大多数人都来自英国的城镇，对这些事还一窍不通呢。”

“可是，现在他们生活在这里，因此他们必须要学会，”波瓦坦说，“否则他们就得送给我枪炮。我们的村子里有很多食物，但我们需要枪炮。我可以送给英国人食物，但他们必须先给我枪炮才行。去把这些都告诉你的英国朋友，波卡洪塔斯！”





4A wife for John Smith


A wife for John Smith

But the English didn't want to give Powhatan any guns. 'Oh no, Pocahontas,' John Smith said.' Your father has thousands of men, but we have only a hundred and fifty. We can't give him guns.'

Later, some of Powhatan's men tried to take guns from the English. Smith was very angry. He locked the men in a little room in Jamestown for a week. Then he talked to Pocahontas about them.

'I'm very angry with these men, Pocahontas,' he said. 'But I'm not going to kill them, because your father didn't kill me in Werowocomoco. I'm going to give them to you. Take them home, Pocahontas.'

Pocahontas liked the English, and she often visited Jamestown. John Smith liked to teach her new things.

'The sun, Pocahontas,' he said one evening, 'is a red ball in the sky. This world is a big round ball, too. Thirty years ago, an Englishman called Francis Drake sailed round the world in a ship.'

Pocahontas laughed. 'But that's not true! Of course the world isn't a ball! Why does the sea stay on it, then?'

Smith smiled. 'Oh, I can tell you. Listen...'

He talked well, so it was easy to understand him. Pocahontas listened, and watched his beautiful blue eyes. She was fourteen years old, and for her, John Smith was the most exciting man in the world.

'Do you have a wife, John Smith?' she asked one day.

'No,' he said slowly. 'Why do you ask?'

'Oh, because one day I must have a husband, and...' She did not finish, but John Smith understood.

'Pocahontas,' he said carefully, 'you are only fourteen years old, and I'm twenty-eight. And the daughter of the King must marry somebody important.'

'You are an important man in Jamestown,' she said quickly. 'And my people and your people must learn to be friends. A husband and wife can...'

'Stop.' He put his finger on her mouth. 'Pocahontas, I like you very much, but I'm not the right husband for you, and...I don't know a lot about women.'

'I can teach you about that!' she said.

He looked at her in surprise, and laughed. She was angry when he laughed.

'I'm nearly fifteen. In my village a girl can have a husband when she is fifteen! Why are you laughing?'

'I'm sorry,' he said. 'You are a beautiful, interesting girl, Pocahontas. But you are only a child!'

'I'm not a child! You're afraid of me, because I'm a King's daughter, and I want you for my husband.'

Pocahontas was angry and unhappy. She went away, back to her father's village, and she didn't visit John Smith again for two months. But she thought about him every day. There was only one man in the world for Pocahontas, and that was John Smith.

And in Jamestown, perhaps John Smith thought about Pocahontas, too.

lock v. fasten or be fastened with a lock 把……锁起来；锁上

think about use one's mind to consider (something) 想；思念

4 ．萌生爱意

但英国人并不愿意把枪炮送给波瓦坦。“哦，不，波卡洪塔斯，”约翰·史密斯说，“你父亲手下有好几千人，而我们只有一百五十个人。我们不能把枪炮给他。”

随后，波瓦坦手下的一些人企图从英国人手里把枪炮夺过来。史密斯非常生气。他把这些印第安人锁在詹姆斯敦的一个小屋里，关了一星期。之后他跟波卡洪塔斯谈起了这件事。

“这些人令我很生气，波卡洪塔斯，”他说，“但我并不打算杀他们，因为在威尔沃科莫科村的时候，你的父亲没有杀我。我准备把这些人交给你。带他们回家吧，波卡洪塔斯。”

波卡洪塔斯很喜欢英国人，她经常来詹姆斯敦。约翰·史密斯也很喜欢教给她新的东西。

“波卡洪塔斯，”一天晚上史密斯对她说，“太阳是天空中一个火红的球。这个世界也是一个大圆球。三十年前，一位名叫弗朗西斯·德雷克的英国人乘着一艘船环游了世界。”

波卡洪塔斯笑着说：“可这并不是真的吧！世界肯定不是一个圆球！要真是这样，大海为什么还能待在地上面？”

史密斯微笑道：“噢，我来告诉你。听着……”

他讲解得非常好，所以很容易听懂。波卡洪塔斯一边听着一边望着他那双美丽的蓝眼睛。她十四岁了，对她来说，约翰·史密斯是世上最令人兴奋的男人。

“你有妻子吗，约翰·史密斯？”一天，她问道。

“没有，”他慢慢地说，“你为什么问这个？”

“噢，因为总有一天我得有个丈夫，而且……”她没有说完，但约翰·史密斯已经明白了。

“波卡洪塔斯，”他小心翼翼地说道，“你只有十四岁，而我已经二十八岁了。再说首领的女儿一定得嫁给重要人物。”

“你在詹姆斯敦就是 位重要人物，”她马上答道，“而且我的人民和你的人民都必须学会成为朋友。一对夫妻能够……”

“不要再往下说了，”他把手指放在她的嘴上，“波卡洪塔斯，我非常喜欢你，但我并不适合做你的丈夫，而且……我对女人的了解也不多。”

“我可以教你去了解呀！”她说。

他吃惊地望着她，笑了起来。波卡洪塔斯看到他笑很生气。

“我都快十五岁了。在我的村子里，女孩子十五岁的时候就可以有丈夫了！你为什么要笑呢？”

“对不起，”他说道，“你是个美丽而有趣的姑娘，波卡洪塔斯。但你还只是个孩子！”

“我不是孩子了！你害怕我，因为我是首领的女儿，而且我想让你做我的丈夫。”

波卡洪塔斯又气又恼。她走了，回到了父亲的村子，有两个月都没再去找约翰·史密斯。但她每天都思念着他。在这个世界上，波卡洪塔斯心里只有一个男人，他就是约翰·史密斯。

而在詹姆斯敦，也许约翰·史密斯也正在想着波卡洪塔斯呢。





5Where is John Smith?


Where is John Smith?

In the winter of 1608 the English in Jamestown were hungry again. So John Smith went to Werowocomoco and asked Powhatan for corn. He took many beautiful glass beads with him, because the Indians loved these things. But Powhatan wanted more than beads.

'You can have corn,' he said, 'but you must build one of your big English houses for me — with windows of glass. And you must give me some guns.'

'A house — yes,' said Smith. 'Tomorrow my men can bring things from Jamestown and begin to build a house for you. But guns — no. Friends do not need guns.'

Powhatan smiled, but he was angry, very angry. 'Yes, we are friends,' he said. 'Tonight you must stay here and eat with us. Tomorrow you can have your corn.'

That night Pocahontas came to John Smith. She was afraid. 'My father is angry,' she said. 'He wants to kill you, and all your men. You must be careful!'

John Smith took her hands. 'What a good friend you are, Pocahontas!' he said. 'How can I thank you?'

Pocahontas looked into his blue eyes. 'You are my King,' she said quietly. 'My King — now, and always.'

So Smith and his men carried their guns all the time and they watched very carefully. The next morning Opekankanu and his women came with the corn.

'There is your corn,' Opekankanu said. 'Now, give us your guns!' He smiled. 'Look behind you!'

Smith looked. And seven hundred Indians came out of the forest, with bows and arrows.

How can ten men fight seven hundred? In a second, John Smith had his hand in Opekankanu's hair, and his gun in Opekankanu's face.

'My gun can kill you ,' he said angrily, 'before an arrow can get to me .' He looked at Opekankanu's men. 'Do you want Opekankanu to die?' he called.

The Indians were afraid of John Smith. To them, he was a King, and it is not easy to kill a King. They put down their bows and arrows, and went away into the forest. Opekankanu, too, was afraid. His women put the corn in Smith's boat, and Smith and his men went back down the river to Jamestown.

Powhatan and Opekankanu were angry. 'We don't want these Englishmen in our country,' Powhatan said. 'We must kill them — kill them all!'

'No, father!' said Pocahontas. 'We must learn to be friends with the English. John Smith says—'

'Be quiet!' Powhatan said. 'John Smith is our enemy. Stay away from him! Do you understand?'

'But you gave him to me, father. Do you remember? I loved his blue eyes then, and I love them now. I cannot stay away from him.'

Pocahontas did visit John Smith after that, but not very often. It wasn't easy for her. There was often fighting between the English and the Indians now, and dead men do not make friends.

More ships and more men came from England — and more guns. Jamestown was now a town of five hundred people — five hundred hungry people. The English wanted the Indians' corn, and the Indians wanted the Englishmen's guns.

One day, in October 1609, Pocahontas went to Jamestown, but she could not find John Smith.

'Where is he?' she asked some Englishmen.

'Smith? He left Jamestown a month ago,' one man said. 'He had a bad accident with some gunpowder. He was very ill. So he went home to England.'

'Ill?' Pocahontas said. 'John Smith is ill?'

'Yes,' the man said. 'It was a very bad accident. And six weeks on a ship... perhaps he's dead now.'

'Did — did he leave a letter for me?' Pocahontas asked.

The man laughed. 'A letter for you, little girl? But you can't read! Why? Is it important?'

'No,' she said. 'It's not important.' But of course it was.

She went away into the forest and cried for a long time. Where was John Smith, her Englishman with blue eyes, the colour of the sky?

all the time very frequently or regularly 始终

watch v. to be very careful 留意；当心

enemy n. a person who is actively opposed or hostile to someone or something 敌人

accident n. an unfortunate incident that happens unexpectedly and unintentionally 意外事件；事故

5 ．约翰·史密斯失踪了？

1608年的冬天，詹姆斯敦的英国人又遭遇了饥荒。于是约翰·史密斯来到威尔沃科莫科村，向波瓦坦要谷物。他带了很多漂亮的玻璃珠子，因为印第安人喜欢这些东西。但波瓦坦想要的不仅于此。

“你可以拿走谷物，”他说，“但你必须为我建造一座你们英国人那样的大房子——有玻璃窗户的那种。你还必须得给我一些枪炮。”

“一幢房子——好吧，”史密斯说道，“明天我的人会从詹姆斯敦带东西过来，开始为你建造一栋房子。但至于枪炮——那不行。朋友之间是不需要什么枪炮的。”

波瓦坦笑了一下，但实际上他生气了，非常非常生气。“是啊，我们是朋友，”他说，“你今晚必须待在这里，和我们一同用餐。明天就可以拿到谷物了。”

那天晚上，波卡洪塔斯来找约翰·史密斯。她非常害怕。“我父亲生气了。”她说，“他想杀了你，以及你手下所有的人。你千万要小心啊！”

约翰·史密斯握住了她的手。“你是一个多么好的朋友啊，波卡洪塔斯！”他说，“我该如何感谢你呢？”

波卡洪塔斯凝望着他那双蓝眼睛。“你就是我的首领，”她低声说道，“我的首领——现在是，永远都是。”

于是史密斯和他的手下始终枪不离身，非常小心地戒备着。第二天早上，奥皮坎卡努和他的女人们带来了谷物。

“这是你们的谷物，”奥皮坎卡努说。“现在，把你们的枪交给我们！”他笑着说，“看看你们的背后！”

史密斯看了一下。有大约七百名印第安人从森林里冒了出来，手里都拿着弓箭。

十个人怎么打得过七百个人？突然，约翰·史密斯用手抓住了奥皮坎卡努的头发，同时把枪顶在奥皮坎卡努的脸上。

“我的枪能杀死你 ，”他愤怒地说道，“在箭射中我 之前。”他看着奥皮坎卡努的手下。“你们想让奥皮坎卡努死吗？”他喊道。

印第安人很害怕约翰·史密斯。对他们来说，他就像是首领，而杀死首领并非易事。他们放下弓箭，撤回了森林。奥皮坎卡努也很害怕。他的女人们把谷物放进了史密斯的船里，史密斯和他的手下顺河而下回到了詹姆斯敦。

波瓦坦和奥皮坎卡努都暴跳如雷。“我们不想再让这些英国人待在我们的领土上，”波瓦坦说，“我们必须杀了他们——把他们全都杀了！”

“不，父亲！”波卡洪塔斯说道，“我们必须学会和英国人做朋友。约翰·史密斯说——”

“住嘴！”波瓦坦说，“约翰·史密斯是我们的敌人。离他远点儿！你明白吗？”

“但你把他交给了我，父亲。你还记得吗？我那时很喜欢他的那双蓝眼睛，现在我也喜欢它们。我不能离开他。”

此后波卡洪塔斯的确去看过约翰·史密斯，但并不是很频繁。因为这对她来说并不容易。现在英国人和印第安人之间经常发生冲突，发生伤亡后双方就没法再做朋友了。

从英国来了更多的船和人，还有更多的枪炮。詹姆斯敦现在是一个拥有五百个人——五百个饥饿的人——的城镇。英国人想得到印第安人的谷物，而印第安人则想要英国人的枪炮。

1609年l0月的一天，波卡洪塔斯来到了詹姆斯敦，但却找不到约翰·史密斯。

“他在哪儿？”她问一些英国人。

“史密斯吗？一个月前他就离开詹姆斯敦了，”一个人说道，“火药走火让他伤得不轻。他病得很厉害，所以回英国老家去了。”

“病了？”波卡洪塔斯问道，“约翰·史密斯病了？”

“是的，”那个人说道，“那是一次很严重的事故。而且他还要在船上待六个星期……也许他现在已经死了。”

“那——那他有没有留给我一封信？”波卡洪塔斯问道。

那个人笑了：“留给你信，小姑娘？可你不识字啊！为什么问这个？很重要吗？”

“不，”她说，“并不重要。”但这当然很重要。

她走进森林，哭了很久。约翰·史密斯在哪儿？她那有着一双天蓝色眼睛的英国人在哪儿呢？





6A husband for Pocahontas


A husband for Pocahontas

For four years after that, things were very bad. Sometimes Pocahontas tried to help the English. But to Powhatan and Opekankanu, the English were enemies, and they wanted to kill them all.

Powhatan gave the English no more corn. His men came at night to Jamestown, and took guns and other things. When they found Englishmen in the forest or by the river, they killed them and took their guns. And so Powhatan now had many guns in Werowocomoco.

The new leaders of Jamestown were very unhappy about this. 'How can we stop Powhatan?' they said. 'We must get those guns back from him.'

'We need to take a hostage,' said a man called Samuel Argall. 'One of the Chiefs, or somebody important from Powhatan's family. Then we can talk to Powhatan. We can give him back the hostage when he gives us the guns — but not before.'

'Powhatan has a daughter, Pocahontas,' said an older man. 'He loves her very much, they say...'

*　　*　　*

In 1613 Pocahontas was nineteen. She lived now with her father's friend, Iapassus, and his wife. Iapassus was friendly with the English, and so it was easy for Samuel Argall. He came to Iapassus' village in his ship.

'I have many beautiful things from England in my ship,' he told Iapassus. 'They are all for you — but first, you must give me something. You must bring Pocahontas onto my ship, and leave her here.'

So Iapassus took Pocahontas onto the ship, and Argall locked her in a room. Pocahontas was very angry.

'I'm sorry,' Argall said to her, 'but you must come with me to Jamestown. Your father must stop fighting us, and he must give us back our guns. Then you can go home.'

So Pocahontas went to Jamestown, and stayed there. At first, Powhatan was angry. He wanted his daughter. But then he looked at his guns, and he wanted them more than his daughter.

'We can kill the English with these guns,' he said to Opekankanu. 'Pocahontas likes the English. She can stay in Jamestown — and the guns can stay here.'

*　　*　　*

There were many women in Jamestown now, and Pocahontas soon made new friends. The Englishwomen liked her very much. She stayed in their houses, played with their children, and spoke English all the time.

After some months, one of her new friends asked her: 'Are you happy here with us, Pocahontas? Would you like to go home to your pepole?'

'The English are my people now,' said Pocahontas.

'But perhaps one day your father —' said her friend.

'My father,' said Pocahontas, 'likes his guns better than his daughter. They are more important to him. This is my home now, and I am very happy here.'

One of her new friends was a man called John Rolfe. Pocahontas liked him. Rolfe was a tall man, with brown eyes. He liked Pocahontas, too, and visited her nearly every day. He smiled a lot, and often laughed happily.

One day he said: 'Pocahontas, I have something important to say to you. We are good friends, I think, and... well, we can be more than friends. I need a wife, Pocahontas, and — you are the most beautiful woman in Jamestown. And the most interesting woman, too! I love you, Pocahontas, and I want to marry you.'

At first Pocahontas didn't say anything. John Rolfe was a nice man, but a long time ago, she remembered, she wanted to be the wife of a different John. 'But I'm never going to see John Smith again,' she thought. 'He's dead. I must forget about him.'

She smiled at John Rolfe. 'Yes, John,' she said. 'I would very much like to be your wife.'

And so, on the 5th April, 1614, an Indian girl married an Englishman in the church in Jamestown. Pocahontas' father did not come, but Opekankanu was there, with many of her people.

'Your father is happy for you,' Opckankanu told her.

Pocahontas was happy, too. John Rolfe was a good husband, and a year later, they had a little son, Thomas. Pocahontas loved him very much.

hostage n. a person seized or held as security for the fulfillment of a condition 人质

forget v. fail to remember 忘记

6 ．波卡洪塔斯之夫

此后的四年里，情况很糟糕。波卡洪塔斯有时会设法帮助英国人。但对波瓦坦和奥皮坎卡努来说，英国人就是敌人，他们要把英国人全都杀死。

波瓦坦没再给过英国人谷物。他的手下趁夜色潜入詹姆斯敦，拿走枪和其他物品。一旦在森林中或是河边发现英国人，他们就会杀掉对方并抢走他们的枪。所以，现在波瓦坦在威尔沃科莫科村有了很多枪。

詹姆斯敦的新领袖们对此非常恼火。“我们怎么才能阻止波瓦坦？”他们说，“我们必须把枪从他那里夺回来。”

“我们需要一名人质，”一个叫塞缪尔·阿高尔的人说，“这个人可以是一名印第安酋长，或是波瓦坦家族的某位重要人物。然后我们就可以跟波瓦坦谈判。如果他把枪还给我们，我们就可以把人质交还给他——但在还枪以前，是不可能还给他们人质的。”

“波瓦坦有一个女儿，叫波卡洪塔斯，”一位年长的人说道，“他非常疼爱她，他们说……”

*　　*　　*

1613年，波卡洪塔斯十九岁。她现在和父亲的朋友伊阿帕索斯夫妇住在一起。伊阿帕索斯对英国人很友好，因此塞缪尔·阿高尔很容易施行自己的计划。他乘船来到伊阿帕索斯的村子。

“我的船上有很多从英国带来的漂亮玩意儿，”他对伊阿帕索斯说，“这些都是送给你的——但首先，你得给我 一样东西。你必须把波卡洪塔斯带到我的船上来，并把她留在这儿。”

于是伊阿帕索斯把波卡洪塔斯带到船上，接着阿高尔把她锁进了一间屋子里。波卡洪塔斯非常生气。

“很抱歉，”阿高尔对她说，“但你必须得跟我回詹姆斯敦。你父亲必须停止同我们争战，并把枪还给我们。然后你才可以回家。”

于是波卡洪塔斯去了詹姆斯敦，并待在那里。波瓦坦非常生气，他想要回自己的女儿。但当他看到自己的枪时，他觉得比起自己的女儿，他更想要这些枪。

“我们可以用这些枪杀死英国人，”他对奥皮坎卡努说，“波卡洪塔斯既然喜欢英国人，那她可以待在詹姆斯敦——而枪就放在我们这儿吧。”

*　　*　　*

现在已经有很多女人住在詹姆斯敦了，波卡洪塔斯很快就交上了新朋友。英国女人们都很喜欢她。波卡洪塔斯待在她们的家里，和她们的孩子一起玩儿，而且一直在讲英语。

几个月后，她的一位新朋友问她：

“你和我们待在这里快乐吗，波卡洪塔斯？你愿意回家，回到你的人民那里去吗？”

“现在英国人就是我的人民。”波卡洪塔斯说道。

“但或许有一天你的父亲——”她的朋友说。

“我的父亲，”波卡洪塔斯说，“喜欢他的枪胜过于喜欢他的女儿。那些枪对他来说更重要。现在这里是我的家，我在这儿非常开心。”

她的新朋友中有一个叫约翰·罗尔夫的人，波卡洪塔斯很喜欢他。罗尔夫个子高高的，有一双棕色的眼睛。他也喜欢波卡洪塔斯，几乎每天都去看她。他总是面带微笑，而且经常发出开心的笑声。

一天，他说：“波卡洪塔斯，我有重要的事要告诉你。我们是好朋友，我想，那个……呃，我们的关系可以不止是朋友。我需要一个妻子，波卡洪塔斯，而且——你是詹姆斯敦最美丽的女人，也是最富情趣的女人！我爱你，波卡洪塔斯，我想娶你为妻。”

起初，波卡洪塔斯没有说话。约翰·罗尔夫是个好人，但她记起在很久以前，自己曾经想要成为另一个约翰的妻子。“但我将再也见不到约翰·史密斯了，”她想，“他死了。我必须忘了他。”

于是她冲约翰·罗尔夫笑了笑。“好的，约翰，”她说，“我很愿意成为你的妻子。”

于是，1614年4月5日，在詹姆斯敦的教堂里，一个印第安女孩嫁给了一个英国人。波卡洪塔斯的父亲没有出席，但奥皮坎卡努来了，还有她的很多印第安同胞。

“你父亲为你感到高兴。”奥皮坎卡努告诉她。

波卡洪塔斯也非常高兴。约翰·罗尔夫是个好丈夫，一年后，他们有了一个可爱的儿子，名叫托马斯。波卡洪塔斯非常爱他。





7England


England

In 1616, Pocahontas, John Rolfe, and their son went to England. Ten of her people came too. After seven weeks on the ship, they arrived in London.

'How big London is!' Pocahontas said. 'There are hundreds of houses here — and thousands of people!'

London was very noisy and exciting. Pocahontas was interested in everything. She went into the shops, and looked at the food and the dresses and the books. She went up and down the River Thames in a boat, and saw the big houses of rich people. Every day, she saw something new and wonderful.

But London was very dirty, too, because there were so many people. The river was dirty, and the water was bad. Two of Pocahontas' people were ill, and died.

But Pocahontas was happy, and excited. Every day she visited big houses and talked to rich and important people. Everybody in London wanted to meet her, to talk to her, to be her friend.

The King and Queen of England heard about John Rolfe's wife, the Indian girl from Virginia, and they wanted to meet her, too. So one day Pocahontas went to visit King James and Queen Anne. They asked her about her father, Powhatan.

'My father is the King of the Algonquin people,' she said. 'He has many men and villages. But our country is quieter than England. Our people understand the forest and the animals and the rivers. You can learn from us, and we can learn from you, too. We must be friends.'

'Of course we must,' King James said. 'Jamestown has my name, so I'm very interested in it.'

They talked for some time, and then his wife, Queen Anne, said: 'I have a letter about you, Pocahontas. It's from a man called John Smith. He was your friend, he says, when you were a little girl. Is that true?'

For a second or two Pocahontas could not speak. Then she said, 'A letter from John Smith? But he's dead!'

Queen Anne smiled. 'Dead? No, he's here in England. Look, here is the letter.' The Queen looked at Pocahontas. 'What's the matter, my dear? Are you ill?'

'No, no, I'm all right. I'm very happy.'

But that night, Pocahontas could not sleep. She was very excited. John Smith was not dead. He was alive, and in England! But where?

Two days later, John Smith came to see her.

He was older, of course. But she remembered him. A little man, not tall, but interesting, exciting, alive. He smiled at her, with those beautiful blue eyes. 'Hello, Pocahontas,' he said. 'Do you remember me?'

How could she forget him'? She looked at him, but said nothing. John Rolfe watched them. 'It's John Smith, my dear,' he said. 'Are you happy to see him?'

But Pocahontas was not happy. 'No,' she said. 'I'm sorry. No .' She looked out of the window, at nothing. She couldn't look at John Smith.

John Rolfe went out, and Smith waited. After a minute he said: 'You are a wife now, and a mother.'

'Yes,' Pocahontas looked at him and tried to smile.

'Do I look different?' he asked. 'I'm older, I know.'

'No, you don't look different,' she said. 'But — why did you go away from Virginia?'

'I had an accident,' he said. 'I was very ill. So I came back to England, and after two years I got better.'

'In Jamestown they told me you were dead.'

'Dead? No, not me.'

'But you didn't tell me! You didn't write me a letter—not one letter in eight years, John Smith!'

'But you were a child, Pocahontas. You couldn't read!'

'Well, I can read now!' she said angrily. 'Perhaps I was a child, John Smith, but my father gave you to me — that day in my father's village long ago. Do you remember? That day was the beginning of my love for you.'

He looked at her sadly with those beautiful blue eyes, and she was a child again. She remembered everything.

'You didn't love me,' she said. 'You never loved me.'

'I...don't know about love,' he said slowly. 'You are the daughter of a King, Pocahontas, and I'm not rich, or important. I never had a wife; perhaps I don't understand women. And you were a child, Pocahontas.'

'I was a child — but I loved you, and you went away,' she said. 'For eight years I heard nothing from you.'

For a long time he said nothing. Then he said. 'I'm sorry, Pocahontas. I was wrong.'

'I loved you so much,' she said sadly. Then the door opened and her little son, Thomas, came in. 'But now I have a son and a husband,' she said. 'And they love me. You and I cannot be friends. Goodbye, John Smith.'

'Goodbye, Pocahontas.' He looked at her for a minute, and then walked out of the door. She never saw him again.

Six months later, John Rolfe said: 'We must go back to Virginia, my dear. My work is waiting for me there. And you need the warm sun of Virginia, too.'

It was true. Pocahontas was now ill, and the cold rain of the English winter was not good for her. But she said nothing, and got ready to leave. The ship went down the river from London to a town called Gravesend, near the sea. But when they got there, Pocahontas was very ill and she could not move. John Rolfe sat by his wife's bed, and watched her face sadly.

She smiled at him. 'Goodbye, John. I am going home—home to the forests and rivers of my country,'

*　　*　　*

Pocahontas died in Gravesend in March 1617.

She is famous for two things. She was the first American woman to marry an Englishman and come to England. And she was a good friend to the English when they first went to Virginia.

Her husband, John Rolfe, went back to Virginia and married an Englishwoman there. He died in Virginia in 1622. Pocahontas' son, Thomas, lived with the Rolfe family in England when he was a child, but in 1635 he went to live in Virginia.

John Smith did not leave England again. He wrote many interesting books about America, and he wrote about Pocahontas in those books. He lived until 1631, but he never had a wife. Perhaps he could not forget the sad, dark eyes of Pocahontas, when she said goodbye to him for the last time.

noisy adj. full of or marking a lot of noise 喧闹的

hear from receive a letter from 接到……的信

7 ．英国啊，英国

1616年，波卡洪塔斯和约翰·罗尔夫带着儿子来到了英国。随行的还有十个印第安人。经过了七周的航行，他们抵达了伦敦。

“伦敦可真大啊！”波卡洪塔斯说道，“这里有成百上千栋房子和成千上万的人！”

伦敦是个喧闹而令人兴奋的地方。波卡洪塔斯对一切都充满了兴趣。她走进各家商店，看那里摆放着的食品、衣服和书籍。她乘船沿泰晤士河来来回回地游览，看到很多富人的大房子。每天，她都会看到精彩的新奇事物。

然而伦敦也很脏，因为这里人太多了。河水不干净，水质很差。波卡洪塔斯的两位印第安同胞生病死了。

但波卡洪塔斯还是既快乐又兴奋。每天她都去拜访豪门望族，与一些富人和权贵交谈。伦敦的每个人都想见见她，同她聊天，并想成为她的朋友。

英国国王和王后听说了有关约翰·罗尔夫的妻子——这个来自弗吉尼亚的印第安姑娘——的事情，他们也想见见她。于是一天，波卡洪塔斯去拜见了詹姆斯国王和安妮王后。他们问起了她的父亲波瓦坦。

“我父亲是阿尔冈昆印第安人的国王，”她说，“他统领着众多臣民和很多村落。但我们的领土比英国安静多了。我们的人民了解森林、动物与河流。你们可以向我们学习，我们也可以向你们学习。我们要成为朋友。”

“我们当然要成为朋友了，”詹姆斯国王说，“‘詹姆斯敦’这个地方就是以我的名字命名的，所以我对它非常感兴趣。”

他们谈了一会儿之后，国王的妻子安妮王后说：“我有一封关于你的信，波卡洪塔斯。信是一个叫约翰·史密斯的人写的。他说在你还是个小姑娘的时候，他就是你的朋友了。是这样吗？”

有那么一会儿，波卡洪塔斯说不出话来。然后她说道：“约翰·史密斯的信？可他已经死了！”

安妮王后笑了。“死了？不，他就在英国。看，这就是那封信。”王后看着波卡洪塔斯问道，“怎么了，亲爱的？你不舒服吗？”

“不，不，我很好。我非常高兴。”

但那天晚上，波卡洪塔斯无法入睡。她非常兴奋。约翰·史密斯还没有死。他还活着，而且就在英国！可他在哪儿呢？

两天后，约翰·史密斯来见她了。

当然，他苍老了一些。然而她还记得他。他个头不高，但很有趣，令人兴奋而充满活力。他用那双好看的蓝眼睛冲她微笑着。“嗨，波卡洪塔斯，”他说，“你还记得我吗？”

她怎么会忘记他呢？她望着他，但什么也没说。约翰·罗尔夫看着他们。“这就是约翰·史密斯，亲爱的，”他说，“见到他你高兴吗？”

但波卡洪塔斯并不高兴。“不，”她说，“很抱歉。我一点也不高兴 。”她茫然地望着窗外。她无法直视约翰·史密斯。

约翰·罗尔夫走了出去，史密斯在旁边等着。过了一会儿，他说：“你现在已为人妻，而且也是一位母亲了。”

“是的。”波卡洪塔斯看着他，努力想挤出笑容。

“我看上去有什么不同吗？”他问，“我知道自己变老了。”

“不，你没有什么变化，”她说，“但是——你为什么要离开弗吉尼亚？”

“我出了事故，”他说，“我当时病得很厉害。于是回到了英国，两年后我才慢慢好起来。”

“在詹姆斯敦，他们都告诉我说你已经死了。”

“死了？不，那不是我。”

“可你并没有告诉我啊！你连一封信也没有给我写——这八年里一封信也没有，约翰·史密斯！”

“可你当时还是个孩子啊，波卡洪塔斯。你那时还不识字呢！”

“好吧，可我现在识字了！”她生气地说道，“也许我当时是 个孩子，约翰·史密斯，但我父亲把你交给了我——就在很久前的那天，在我父亲的村子里。你不记得吗？从那天起，我就开始爱上了你。”

他用那双好看的蓝眼睛忧伤地望着她，他眼中的她此刻又变成了一个孩子。她记起了所有的往事。

“你并不爱我，”她说，“你从来就没爱过我。”

“我……不懂爱情，”他缓缓地说道，“你是首领的女儿，波卡洪塔斯，而我既不富有，也不是权贵。我至今未娶；或许我不了解女人吧。而且你当时还是个孩子，波卡洪塔斯。”

“我那时是个孩子——可我爱你，而你却走了，”她说，“八年来我没有你的任何音信。”

他很长时间都没说话。然后他开口了：“很抱歉，波卡洪塔斯。我错了。”

“我是那么的爱你，”她忧伤地说。这时门开了，她的小儿子托马斯走了进来。“可我现在有了儿子和丈夫，”她说，“而且他们爱我。你和我不能再成为朋友了。再见，约翰·史密斯。”

“再见，波卡洪塔斯。”他看了她一会儿，然后走出门外。她从此以后再也没见过他。

六个月后，约翰·罗尔夫说：“我们必须回弗吉尼亚了，亲爱的。那里还有工作在等着我。而且你也需要弗吉尼亚温暖的阳光。”

没错，波卡洪塔斯现在病了，而且英国冬季寒冷的降雨对她也没有好处。她什么也没说，准备动身。船从伦敦顺流而下，来到一座名为格雷夫森德的海边小镇。但当他们到达那里时，波卡洪塔斯病情加重，卧床不起。约翰·罗尔夫坐在妻子的床边，忧伤地望着她的脸。

她微笑着对他说：“再见了，约翰。我要回家了——回到那片有着森林与河流的土地。”

*　　*　　*

波卡洪塔斯于1617年3月死于格雷夫森德。

有两件事使她闻名于世：她是第一个嫁给英国人并且来到了英国的美洲女性。她也是第一批去弗吉尼亚的英国人的好朋友。

她的丈夫约翰·罗尔夫回到了弗吉尼亚，在那里娶了一个英国女人。他于1622年在弗吉尼亚去世。波卡洪塔斯的儿子托马斯小的时候跟罗尔夫的家人生活在英国，但在1635年搬到弗吉尼亚生活。

约翰·史密斯没有再离开英国。他写了很多有关美洲的有趣的书，在那些书里他写到了波卡洪塔斯。他一直活到1631年，终身未娶。也许他无法忘记波卡洪塔斯最后一次跟他道别时的那双忧伤的黑眼睛。





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


Before Reading

1．Read the stroy introduction of the book. Are these sentences true? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Pocahontas has blue eyes.

YES □／NO □

2) Pocahontas is the daughter of a King.

YES □／NO □

3) The English came to Virginia for a holiday.

YES □／NO □

4) The English call their town after their king.

YES □／NO □

5) The Indians lived in North America for a long time before 1607.

YES □／NO □

6) The Indians wanted the English to go home.

YES □／NO □

7) Pocahontas meets John Smith in Jamestown.

YES □／NO □

2．What happens in this story? Can you guess? Choose words to complete these sentences.

1) Pocahontas marries John Smith / another Englishman .

2) The Indians kill / don't kill John Smith.

3) The English and the Indians are enemies / good friends .

4) John Smith stays in Virginia / goes back to England .

5) Pocahontas stays in Virginia / visits England .

6) Pocahontas / John Smith dies when. she / he is still young.

7) The story has a happy / an unhappy ending.





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


While Reading

1．Read Chapter 1. How many true sentences can you make from this table?

2．Read Chapters 2 and 3. Who said these words, and to whom?

1) 'They are a new people from over the sea.'

2) 'We want to live here, and be your friends.'

3) 'We don't want the English, or their King James.'

4) 'He has wonderful blue eyes — the colour of the sky.'

5) 'I am the King's daughter, and I say no!'

6) 'One day, we want these big guns too.'

7) '...friends are better than guns.'

8) 'We can't give them our corn every year!'

3．Before you read Chapter 4, can you guess what happens?

1) Do the Englishmen give any guns to Powhatan?

2) What happens between Pocahontas and John Smith?

4．Read Chapter 4. Here are some untrue sentences about it. Change them into true sentences.

1) The Englishmen had thousands of men.

2) Pocahontas never visited Jamestown.

3) Pocahontas taught John Smith many new things.

4) To Pocahontas, John Smith was the richest man in the world.

5) Pocahontas wanted John Smith for her friend.

6) Pocahontas didn't think about John Smith for two months.

5．Read Chapter 5, and answer these questions.

1) What did Powhatan want from John Smith?

2) How did Powhatan feel about John Smith's answer?

3) Where did the seven hundred Indians come from?

4) Why did the Indians put down their bows and arrows?

5) Why was it difficult for Pocahontas to visit John Smith?

6) What did the Englishmen and the Indians want?

7) How many people now lived in Jamestown?

8) Why did John Smith go home to England?

9) What did Pocahontas do when she left Jamestown?

6．Before you read Chapter 6, can you guess what happens? Choose one of these answers.

Pocahontas marries...

1) John Smith.

2) another Englishman.

3) an Indian.

7．Read Chapter 6. Choose the best question word for these questions, and then answer them.

Why / Who / What

1) ...did the Indians do to the Englishmen?

2) ...did the English take a hostage?

3) ...did Powhatan want more — his guns or his daughter?

4) ...did Pocahontas make friends with?

5) ...wanted to marry Pocahontas?

6) ...did he want to marry her?

8．Read Chapter 7. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Change the false sentences into true ones.

1) Pocahontas was interested in everything in London.

2) Nobody in London wanted to be Pocahontas' friend.

3) Queen Anne told Pocahontas that John Smith was dead.

4) Pocahontas was a child when John Smith went away.

5) She was happy when John Smith came to see her.

6) The cold weather in England was bad for Pocahontas.

7) Pocahontas died when she was an old woman.

8) John Smith never went to North America again.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


After Reading

1．What did Powhatan say to Pocahontas in the forest? Put their conversation in the right order, and write in the speakers' names. Powhatan speaks first (number 3).

1) ______ 'Run to John Smith and put your arms over his head, before Opekankanu's stick comes down.'

2) ______ 'Yes, I can. But why must I do this, father? You are the King. You can say "no" to Opekankanu.'

why

You

3) ______ 'Listen, Pocahontas. When the men bring the Englishman in front of me and put his head on the stone, you must watch Opekankanu.'

4) ______ 'And then do I take John Smith away?'

5) ______ 'Of course I can say “no”. But I want John Smith to learn something.'

6) ______ 'Run? Run where, father?'

7) ______ 'He must learn that I am the King in this country. And a King can give life, or he can take it away.'

8) ______ 'Do I speak to Opekankanu?'

9) ______ 'No, first you must ask for his life. Say, “Father don't kill this man! ”Can you do this for me?'

10) ______ 'Learn what, father?'

11) ______ 'No, say nothing. Just watch him. But when he walks to the stone with his stick, get ready to run.'

2．Find these words in the word search below, and draw a line through them. The words go from left to right, and from top to bottom.

arrow, bead, bird, bow, chief, church, compass, corn, field, finger, fish, glass, gun, queen, stone, vegetables, walls, world

Now write down all the letters without a line through them. Begin with the first line, and go across each line to the end. There are 41 letters, and they make a sentence of 9 words.

1) What is the sentence?

2) Who said it in the story?

3) Where was the speaker at the time?

4) How was the speaker's life different now?

3．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter ______.

1) Who are the people in the picture?

2) Where are they — in which city and which country?

3) Why is the woman sad?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: ________________________________.

4．Here is John Smith's letter to King James and Queen Anne. Circle the correct words.

Dear King James and Queen Anne

My friends tell / say me that Pocahontas is in / at London. I do / would like to see him / her very much. We were / are friends in Virginia. Her brother's father / father's brother wanted to kill / die me, but Pocahontas stopped / made him. She usually / often came to Jamestown, and she helped the English a lot / a little in those early days. She was a big / little girl then. Does she remember / forget me now? Perhaps I can / must see her in London. Please tell her about us / me , and say goodbye / hello to her from me.

John Smith

5．What did you think about the people in this story? Did you like them? Did you feel sorry for anybody? Choose some names, and complete some of these sentences.

Pocahontas / John Smith / Powhatan / John Rolfe / Opekankanu / Samuel Argall

1) I liked ______ because ______.

2) I didn't like ______ because ______.

3) I felt sorry for ______ when ______.

4) ______ was right to ______.

5) ______ was wrong to ______.

6) I was angry with ______ when ______.

京权图字 01-2006-3295

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2003

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

长池村的故事＝Tales from Longpuddle／（英）哈代（Hardy, T.）著；（英）巴西特（Bassett, J.）改写；周晶译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2015.1 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6808-4

Ⅰ．长…　Ⅱ．①托…　②巴…　③周…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物　②故事—作品集—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第102691号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年7月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6808-4

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

内容简介

过去，人们很少到别的地方去。他们往往会在一个村子里住一辈子。村里的人都彼此熟识，连别人家里的父母、孩子，甚至祖辈都一清二楚——这样的地方恐怕没有什么秘密可言。

所以，当约翰·拉克兰的儿子旅居美国30年后重返长池村的时候，他知道许多人家肯定还住在那里。他在城里搭上去长池的马车，一路上向同行的乘客打听村里的新闻。

乘客们很乐意跟他说说村里的事情。托尼·凯茨和他那几位姑娘的故事很有趣——哦，没错，拉克兰先生一定得听听这个。另外，安德鲁和简，还有牧师和狐狸又是怎么回事？邮局女局长给拉克兰先生说了这段故事，接着学校的老师又给他讲了为什么教堂的乐队从20年前就不拉小提琴了。而且，拉克兰先生还记得妮蒂·萨金特吗？还记得啊，于是一位农夫的老婆波尔太太又说起了妮蒂是怎么把她叔叔的房子弄到手的……

TALES FROM LONGPUDDLE

In the old days, people did not move around so much. They often lived in the same village all their lives. Everybody knew everybody, knew their parents, their children, their grandparents, and probably knew all their secrets too.

So when John Lackland's son returns to the village of Longpuddle after thirty years in America, he knows he will find many of the same families there. In the town he catches the Longpuddle wagon, and on the way to the village he asks the other passengers for news.

The passengers are very happy to tell him stories. There's a good story about Tony Kytes and all his young women — oh yes, Mr Lackland must hear that one. And what about Andrew and Jane, and the parson and the fox? The postmistress tells Mr Lackland that story, and then the schoolteacher tells him why the church band stopped playing their fiddles in the church twenty years ago. And does Mr Lackland remember Netty Sargent? He does, and so Mrs Pawle, a farmer's wife, tells him what Netty had to do to get her uncle's house...

The Wagon to Longpuddle

It is a Saturday afternoon in autumn, in the High Street of a well-known town. A large carrier's wagon stands outside the Town Hall, and the horses wait quietly, eating from their nose-bags. On the side of the wagon, in large yellow letters, are the words, 'BURTHEN, CARRIER TO LONGPUDDLE.'

It is now half-past three by the clock on the Town Hall, and the wagon will leave at four. Slowly, people begin to arrive and take their seats. First, two women climb up, and then a third, who is the postmistress at Longpuddle. At five minutes to four, more people arrive. There is Mr Profitt, the schoolteacher, and Christopher Twink, the builder, with his old father. Then come a farmer and his wife, and last of all, Mr Flaxton, the church clerk.

By now Burthen, the carrier, is getting the horses ready, and soon he climbs up to the driving seat.

'Is everybody here?' he asks the passengers.

The people who are not there do not reply, of course, and a minute or two later the wagon begins to move along the High Street. When it comes to the bridge over the river at the bottom end of the town, the postmistress suddenly calls out to the carrier.

'Mr Burthen,' she says. 'There's a man calling you, over there by the corner. I think he wants you to stop for him.'

Burthen stops the wagon, and waits while the man comes towards them. 'Now who's that, then?' he says. 'That's not a Longpuddle man.'

'I've never seen him before,' says the schoolteacher.

Then the stranger arrives. 'Can you take another passenger for Longpuddle?' he asks.

'We can take one more,' says the carrier. 'Where are you from, sir? You're not from round here, are you?'

'I am,' says the stranger. 'I was born at Longpuddle, and my father and grandfather before me.'

The postmistress is watching him with interest. 'Oh!' she says suddenly. 'I know who you are! You're John Lackland's son — he who went to America thirty years ago with his wife and family.'

'That's right,' says the stranger, smiling. 'John Lackland was my father. And now I've come home to have a look at the old village, and find some old friends. Are the same families still living there?'

'Many of them are,' says the church clerk. 'Which names do you remember?'

'There was a boy called Tony Kytes, I remember.'

'Oh yes,' says the clerk. 'Tony Kytes is a married man now. Lives over at Mellstock, I think.'

'And he nearly got married to three women,' laughs the carrier. 'There's a good story about Tony and all his young women.'

'Tell me about it,' says John Lackland's son.

And this is the carrier's story.

town hall a public building used for a town's local government 镇公所

clerk n. a lay officer of a church 教堂执事

stranger n. a person who is unfamiliar 陌生人

married adj. having a husband or wife 已婚的

去长池村的马车

这是秋天一个周六的下午，一个众所周知的小镇上，一辆运客的马车正停在大路上，就在镇公所门口，拉车的几匹马安静地等在那里，就着马粮袋吃东西。马车的一侧用黄色的大字写着“伯森，去往长池村的马车”。

这会儿，镇公所的大钟指到了3点半，马车准备4点出发。渐渐地，开始有人来搭车，各自找了座位安顿下来。最先上来的是两位妇人，接着上来的是长池村邮局的女局长。差5分4点的时候，又来了几位乘客，有学校教师普罗菲特先生，建筑工克里斯托弗·特温克和他的老爹。接着又来了一个农夫和他的老婆，最后来的是教堂执事弗拉克斯顿先生。

这个时候，车夫伯森正在给马做准备，不一会儿他自己也登上了车夫的座位。

“都到齐了吗？”他问乘客们。

当然，没到的人也没办法回答他，于是一两分钟之后马车开始沿着大路出发了。马车走到镇子尽头的小河，正在过桥的时候，邮局女局长突然叫住了车夫。

“伯森先生，”她说，“那边的拐角上有个人在叫你。我想他可能想让你等他一下。”

伯森停下马车，等那人赶过来。“那人是谁？”他说，“他不是长池村的人。”

“我以前从没见过他。”学校教师说。

陌生人赶到马车跟前，问：“你们能再搭一个人去长池村吗？”

“我们可以再搭一个人，”车夫说，“你是从哪儿来的，先生？你不是这附近的人，对吧？”

“我是这儿的人，”陌生人说，“我就生在长池村，我的父亲和祖父也都生在那里。”

邮局女局长饶有兴趣地打量着他。“哦！”她突然说，“我知道你是谁了！你是约翰·拉克兰的儿子，他30年前带着老婆孩子去了美国。”

“没错，”陌生人笑着说，“约翰·拉克兰是我父亲。现在我回家来看看老村子，拜访几位老朋友。过去的那些人家还住在那儿吧？”

“许多人家都还在，”教堂执事说，“你都记得哪些名字？”

“我记得过去有个男孩叫托尼·凯茨。”

“哦，是的，”教堂执事说，“托尼·凯茨现在已经结了婚。我想他搬到麦尔斯托克去了。”

“而且他差点儿娶了三个老婆，”车夫哈哈大笑起来，“托尼和他那几个姑娘可有一段儿不错的故事。”

“跟我说说。”约翰·拉克兰的儿子说。

于是，车夫讲起了这个故事。

Tony Kytes Finds a Wife

I shall never forget Tony's face. It was a little, round face, with bright black eyes. He never smiled very much, but he was a great favourite with the women. And he liked them , oh yes! One week you saw him walking along with one girl, the next week you saw him with another girl.

But in the end he decided that Milly Richards was the girl for him. She was a nice, sweet little thing, and people soon said they were engaged to be married.

One Saturday Tony went to market, to do some business for his father, and he drove the wagon home in the afternoon. When he got to the hill just outside the town, he saw Unity Sallet by the side of the road. He knew Unity very well. Once, he nearly asked her to marry him — but then he got together with Milly.

When Tony came up to her in the wagon, Unity said, 'My dear Tony, can I ride home with you?'

'Of course you can, my love,' said Tony. 'I couldn't say no to you, could I?'

So Unity smiled, jumped up into the wagon and Tony drove on up the hill.

'Tony,' she said, in a soft little voice, 'why did you leave me for that other girl? How is she better than I am? I'll be a fine wife, and a loving one, too. And you've known me for a long time, haven't you, Tony?'

'Yes, I have,' said Tony. 'Yes, that's very true.'

'And — can you say I'm not pretty, Tony?'

He looked at her for a long while. 'I really can't,' said he. 'No, I think you're the prettiest girl in the world.'

'So I'm prettier than she is, am I?'

Luckily, before Tony could answer, he saw a girl's hat over the hedge round a turning in the road. He knew the hat very well — it was Milly's hat.

'Unity,' said Tony quickly, 'here's Milly coming now. I'll be in terrible trouble if she sees you with me. Now, dearest Unity, we don't want any fighting or anything, do we? So will you lie down in the back of the wagon, under the tarpaulin? Just until Milly has passed? And I'll think about what you said, and perhaps I'll put a loving question to you, and not Milly. Nothing is decided yet between her and me, you know.'

So Unity lay down under the tarpaulin in the back of the wagon, and Tony drove on to meet Milly.

'My dear Tony!' Milly said crossly, when he came near. 'How late you are!'

'Late?' said Tony. 'Were you waiting for me?'

'Of course I was!' said Milly. 'You asked me to meet you, to ride home with you. Don't you remember?'

'Oh dear!' said Tony. 'Yes, yes, I did. I remember now. Oh dear — I mean, jump in then, Milly dear!'

So Milly climbed into the wagon and Tony drove on. They talked about this and that, and looked at the trees and the birds. Then they came to a house by the road, and looking out of an upstairs window was Hannah Jolliver. Now Hannah was a tall, good-looking girl, with long red hair. And Tony was in love with her for a long time — before Milly, and before Unity.

'My dear Milly,' he said, in a whisper, because he didn't want Unity to hear, 'there's a young woman looking out of that window, who wanted to marry me. I'm afraid she's going to be angry, because she's found out that I'm going to marry you. And you're a prettier girl than she is. So, Milly, will you help me?'

'Of course, dearest Tony,' said Milly.

'Then will you hide under the empty sacks just here in the front of the wagon, behind the seat? She hasn't seen us yet, and then there won't be any angry words.'

'Well, all right, if it helps you, Tony,' said Milly. She didn't really want to, but she got down behind the seat and hid under the sacks. So there was Milly hiding in the front of the wagon, and Unity hiding in the back.

Tony drove on past the house, which was Hannah's uncle's house, and Hannah looked down from the window and called out to him. 'Aren't you going to ask me to ride home with you?'

'Oh — yes, of course!' said Tony, who didn't know what to say. 'But aren't you staying at your uncle's?'

'No, I'm not,' said Hannah. 'Can't you see I've got my hat and coat on? How can you be so stupid, Tony?'

'Um, yes, um, then you must ride home with me, of course,' said Tony, who was beginning to feel hot and uncomfortable. So he stopped the wagon, while Hannah ran downstairs and got in beside him.

Tony drove on again, and then Hannah looked at him out of the corner of her eye. 'This is nice, isn't it, Tony?' she said. 'I like riding with you.'

Tony looked back into her eyes. 'And I like riding with you,' he said after a while. Then he looked into her eyes again — a good, long, slow look. He began to like her more and more. And then he couldn't remember why he ever wanted to marry Milly or Unity. He moved nearer to Hannah on the seat, and they talked in soft little whispers. And after a time Tony said, 'Ah, my sweet Hannah!' and took hold of her hand.

'I'm sorry that you're going to marry Milly,' Hannah said, 'because I do like you very much, Tony dear.'

Tony gave a quick look behind him. 'I haven't asked her the question yet,' he whispered, 'and I'm not sure I will. I'm thinking about asking you .

'Ooooh! Leave Milly, and marry me!' cried Hannah loudly. 'Oh, how wonderful!'

At this, there was a sudden little angry scream from behind the seat, and the tarpaulin at the back moved.

Hannah looked round. 'Something's there, Tony! There's an animal in the back of the wagon!'

'No, no,' said Tony. 'It's just empty sacks, and it's the wheels that make that little screaming sound.'

But he knew that he was in trouble, and he didn't know what to do next. Then the wagon came round a corner in the road and Tony saw his father in a field. His father held up his hand, and Tony saw his escape.

'Oh, Hannah,' he said, 'can you hold the horse for a minute, while I go and find out what father wants?'

Hannah agreed, and Tony hurried into the field.

'What are you playing at, Tony?' said old Mr Kytes.

'What do you mean, father?'

'Well, if you're going to marry Milly Richards, do it. But don't go driving around the country with Jolliver's daughter. People will talk. You mustn't do it, boy.'

'Milly's there, too, father.'

'Milly? Where?'

'Under the sacks! Yes, and Unity Sallet is in there too, father, at the other end, under the tarpaulin. All three of them are in that wagon, and I don't know what to do! Which one shall I marry, father?'

'Which one of them did not ask to ride with you?'

'That was Milly, because I asked her .'

'Then marry Milly, she's the best — Hey, look!'

Tony looked round, and saw his wagon moving. He began to run across the field as fast as he could.

What was happening in the wagon? Milly, under the sacks, was the one who screamed. She began to move about, and then saw another woman's foot. So she moved along under the tarpaulin until she found Unity.

'And what are you doing here?' she asked angrily.

'I can ask you the same question,' said Unity.

'I'm engaged to be married to him, and I can —'

'Oh no, you're not,' said Unity. 'He's going to have Hannah, not you. He said it just now — we heard him.'

When Hannah heard voices under the tarpaulin, she forgot the horse and turned round. The horse decided to go home, and moved off much too quickly. The wheels of the wagon went up on the side of the field, the wagon turned over, and all three girls fell out into the road. The horse looked round and stood still.

Nobody was hurt, but when Tony ran up, the three girls were all shouting and crying and screaming.

'Oh, don't be angry, my dears! Please don't!' said Tony. They did not stop crying and screaming, so he spoke more loudly. 'I must do what's right,' he said. 'I've asked Hannah to marry me, and she's agreed —'

'Oh no, I haven't!' said Hannah, really angry now. 'You must think I'm soft in the head! I'm not marrying a man who keeps girls in the back of his wagon!'

Tony looked surprised. 'So you won't marry me, Hannah?' he said.

'Never!' said Hannah, and she walked away. Perhaps she did still want him, but she didn't want to say so in front of the other girls.

Tony didn't know what to say next. Milly was crying her eyes out, and Tony's father thought that she was the best wife for him. But you never do what your father tells you to, do you? So Tony turned to Unity.

'Well, will you marry me, Unity dear?' he said.

'Marry something that Hannah Jolliver doesn't want? Not I!' said Unity. And she walked away too.

So then it was just Milly and Tony. Milly was still crying, and Tony stood there and looked at her.

'Well, here we are,' he said at last. 'Just the two of us. We'll get married then, shall we, Milly?'

'If you like, Tony. You didn't really mean what you said to them?'

'Not a word of it!' said Tony. And then he kissed her, put the wagon back on the road, and they drove home. They went to see the parson the very next Sunday, and were married two Sundays later.

*　*　*

At the end of his story the carrier turns to the postmistress. 'They had a fine wedding, Mrs Weedle, didn't they? You were there, weren't you?'

'Oh yes,' says the postmistress. 'Best wedding party for years. And I've been to a lot of them. We've had some strange weddings too. Do you remember Andrew Satchel and Jane Vallens a few years ago?'

'But they got married in a different village,' says the church clerk quickly. 'Not in Longpuddle church.'

The carrier laughs. 'It's all right, Mr Flaxton. We know it wasn't you. Go on, Mrs Weedle, tell our visitor about Andrew and Jane.'

'Yes, I remember the Satchel family,' I says John Lackland's son. 'I'd like to hear that story.'

And this is the postmistress's story.

favourite n. someone who is liked and treated better than others 宠儿

engaged adj. having agreed to get married 已订婚的

loving adj. behaving in a way that shows you love someone 钟爱的

hedge n. a row of small bushes or trees growing close together, usually divide one field from another 树篱

tarpaulin n. (a sheet or cover of) heavy cloth specially treated so that water will not pass through it 防水油布

crossly adv. angrily 生气地

whisper n. soft speech produced without full voice 轻声说话

sack n. a large bag of strong, coarse material for holding objects in bulk 麻袋

uncomfortable adj. ill at ease; uneasy 不安的

scream n. a long, loud, piercing cry or sound 尖叫

escape n. avoiding (something dangerous or unpleasant) 逃避

still adv. without movement; motionlessly 不动地

soft in the head very stupid 很愚蠢的

cry one's eyes out be extremely sad and cry a lot 伤心痛哭

wedding n. the ceremony or celebration of a marriage 婚礼

托尼·凯茨讨老婆

我永远也忘不了托尼那张小圆脸，还有那双亮亮的黑眼睛。他不太爱笑，但很讨女人的喜欢。而且他 也喜欢她们 ，哦，是的！这个星期你还见他跟这个姑娘走在一起，下个星期你又会看到他跟另一个姑娘好上了。

不过，最后他认为米利·理查兹最合适。她是个漂亮可人的小东西，人们很快就传言说他们已经订婚了。

一个星期六，托尼到集市去替他老爹办事，下午赶着马车往回走。刚到镇外的小山下，他就看到尤妮蒂·萨勒特在路边。他跟尤妮蒂很熟。以前他差点儿就向她求婚了——不过他后来又跟米利凑到了一起。

看托尼赶着马车过来，尤妮蒂说：“亲爱的托尼，我能搭你的马车回家吗？”

“当然可以，亲爱的，”托尼说，“我可没法儿拒绝你，不是吗？”

于是，尤妮蒂笑着跳上了马车，托尼赶车上了小山。

“托尼，”她轻声细气地说，“你为什么要离开我去找别的姑娘？她哪里比我好了？我会成为一个很好的妻子，还会非常爱你。而且你我已经认识很久了，不是吗，托尼？”

“是啊，”托尼说，“是啊，你说得一点儿不错。”

“而且——你能说我不漂亮吗，托尼？”

他望着她好一会儿。“我实在不能那么说，”他说，“不，我觉得你是世上最漂亮的姑娘。”

“就是说我比她 漂亮，对吧？”

幸运的是，托尼没等回答，就看见路拐弯处的树篱后面露出一个姑娘的帽子。他看着那帽子很眼熟——那是米利的帽子。

“尤妮蒂，”托尼急忙说，“米利往这边来了。如果她看见你跟我在一起，那我的麻烦就大了。最亲爱的尤妮蒂，我们不想大吵一架或是发生别的什么事情，对吧？所以，你躲到车后面的防水油布底下，好不好？只要等到米利走过去就行了。我会考虑你说的事情，或许还会向你求婚，而不是米利。你知道，我和她的事儿还没定呢。”

于是，尤妮蒂躲到了马车后面的油布底下，而托尼则赶着车迎向米利。

“亲爱的托尼！”等他走近，米利生气地说，“你怎么这么晚才来！”

“晚？”托尼说，“你在等我吗？”

“我当然在等你！”米利说，“你让我来跟你会合，一起坐车回家的。你不记得了？”

“哦，天呐！”托尼说，“是的，是的，我是说过。我现在想起来了。哦，天呐——我是说，上车吧，亲爱的米利！”

于是米利上了马车，托尼继续赶路。他们东拉西扯地聊天，看着一路上的树和小鸟。这时，他们经过路旁的一座房子，汉娜·乔利沃正从楼上的窗子里望出来。汉娜是个漂亮的高个子姑娘，有一头红色的长发。而且托尼过去跟她好过很长一段时间——在米利和尤妮蒂之前。

“亲爱的米利，”他小声说，因为他不想让尤妮蒂听见，“那个从窗子望出来的姑娘以前想和我结婚。我担心她会大发脾气，因为她知道我要跟你结婚，而且你又比她漂亮。米利，你愿意帮我个忙吗？”

“当然，我最亲爱的托尼。”米利说。

“那你能藏到车前面的空袋子底下吗？就在这儿，座位后面。她现在还没看到我们，你藏起来，我们就不用跟她撕破脸了。”

“好吧，如果这能帮你的话，托尼。”米利说。她其实并不想这么做，但还是藏到了座位后面的袋子底下。这样一来，马车前面藏着米利，马车后面躲着尤妮蒂。

托尼赶着车经过那座房子，那是汉娜叔叔的家。这时，汉娜从窗子望下来，向他大声喊道：“你不打算邀请我跟你一起坐车回家吗？”

“哦——是的，当然！”托尼不知道说什么才好，“你不打算住在你叔叔家吗？”

“不，”汉娜说，“你没见我已经穿好外衣，戴好帽子了吗？你怎么这么蠢，托尼？”

“嗯，是啊，嗯，那你当然得跟我一起坐车回家。”托尼说着，开始有点儿紧张和不自在了。他停下马车，等汉娜下楼，上车坐到他旁边。

托尼又赶车上路，汉娜从眼角瞅了瞅他。“这真不错，对吧，托尼？”她说，“我喜欢和你一起坐马车。”

托尼回头望着她的眼睛。过了一会儿，他说：“我也喜欢和你一起坐马车。”接着，他又看着她的眼睛——这是一段长久而深情的注视。他开始越来越喜欢她。到后来，他已经不记得自己当初怎么会想跟米利或尤妮蒂结婚了。他朝汉娜身边靠了靠，两个人轻声耳语起来。过了一会儿，托尼说：“啊，我可爱的汉娜！”说着握住了她的手。

“你要跟米利结婚了，我很难过，”汉娜说，“因为我真的很喜欢你，亲爱的托尼。”

托尼很快地看了一眼身后。“我还没向她求婚呢，”他小声说，“而且我也不确定我会那么做。我现在想向你 求婚。”

“哦！离开米利吧，和我结婚！”汉娜大声说，“哦，这真太好了！”

这话刚一出口，座位后面就传出了生气的叫声，车后面的防水油布也动了动。

汉娜回头瞧了瞧。“那儿有东西，托尼！车后面有只什么动物！”

“不，没有，”托尼说，“只有几只空袋子，那声音是轮子发出来的。”

不过他心里清楚自己的麻烦来了，却不知道该如何是好。这时，马车在路上拐了个弯，托尼看到他老爹正在田里。老爹朝他抬了抬手，托尼终于找到了开溜的机会。

“哦，汉娜，”他说，“你能帮我拿一会儿缰绳吗？我去看看老爹有什么事。”

汉娜答应了，于是托尼急忙跑进了田里。

“你在玩什么把戏，托尼？”老凯茨先生问。

“您这是什么意思，爸爸？”

“哦，如果你要娶米利·理查兹，那就快跟她结婚。但是别跟乔利沃的女儿坐着马车到处晃。人们会说闲话的。你可不能这么做，孩子。”

“米利也在那儿，爸爸。”

“米利？在哪儿？”

“在袋子下面！是的，还有尤妮蒂·萨勒特，爸爸，她在马车另一头的防水油布底下。她们三个都在马车上，我不知道怎么办才好！我该跟谁结婚呢，爸爸？”

“她们中哪一个没有 要求搭你的车？”

“米利没有，因为是我邀请她 的。”

“那就跟米利结婚，她是最好的一个——嘿，瞧！”

托尼回头，看见他的马车在走。他赶快穿过田地飞快地朝马车跑去。

马车上是怎么回事？是袋子下面的米利惊叫了一声。她开始四处挪动，看到了另一个女人的脚，于是顺着防水油布发现了尤妮蒂。

“你在这儿干吗？”她生气地问。

“我还要问你呢。”尤妮蒂说。

“我和他订了婚，而且我可以——”

“哦，不，你没有，”尤妮蒂说，“他要娶的是汉娜，不是你。他刚才说的——我们都听见了。”

这时，汉娜听到了防水油布下面有人说话，于是忘了看马，回头来看是怎么回事。那匹马决定自己回家，突然快跑起来。马车的轮子驶上了田地的斜坡，车子翻了，三个姑娘都跌到了路上。那匹马四下看了看，站住不动了。

虽然没有人受伤，可是等托尼跑过来的时候，三个姑娘已经又哭又叫地闹成了一团。

“哦，别发火，亲爱的姑娘们！请别这样！”托尼说。她们还是不停地又哭又叫，所以他只好提高了声音。“我得说话算话，”他说，“我向汉娜求婚，而她也答应了——”

“哦，不，我没答应！”汉娜说，她现在真的气坏了，“你以为我是傻瓜！我才不会跟在马车后面藏姑娘的男人结婚呢！”

托尼看起来很惊讶。“那你不想跟我结婚了，汉娜？”他说。

“决不！”汉娜说完，头也不回地走了。可能她确实还想跟他结婚，但她不想在另外两个姑娘面前向他低头。

托尼不知道接下去该说什么。米利一个劲儿地哭，而托尼的老爹认为她是最适合他的一个。但你怎么会乖乖听老爹的话呢？所以，托尼转向了尤妮蒂。

“好吧，你愿意和我结婚吗，亲爱的尤妮蒂？”他问。

“和一个汉娜·乔利沃不想要的人结婚？我才不呢！”尤妮蒂说完，也走了。

现在就剩下了米利和托尼。米利还在哭，托尼站在那里看着她。

“好了，事情就是这样了，”他最后说，“现在就剩了我们两个。我们结婚吧，好不好，米利？”

“如果你愿意，托尼。你跟她们说那些话不是认真的吧？”

“当然不是！”托尼说。他吻了吻她，又把马车弄回到大路上，一起坐车回家了。他们下个星期日去见了牧师，两个星期后就结婚了。

*　*　*

故事讲完了，车夫扭头跟邮局女局长说：“他们的婚礼很不错，是不是，维德尔太太？你也去参加了吧？”

“哦，是的，”邮局女局长说，“好多年没有过那么棒的婚礼了。我以前可参加过不少婚礼。我们这儿也有几次奇怪的婚礼。你还记得几年前安德鲁·撒切尔和简·瓦伦斯的婚礼吗？”

“可他们是在别的村子举行的婚礼，”教堂执事急忙说，“不是在长池村的教堂。”

车夫笑起来。“没关系的，弗拉克斯顿先生。我们知道那不关你的事。继续，维德尔太太，给我们的客人说说安德鲁和简的事儿吧。”

“是啊，我记得撒切尔一家，”约翰·拉克兰的儿子说，“我想听听这个故事。”

于是邮局女局长开始讲起来。

Andrew, Jane, the Parson, and the Fox

It all happened because Andrew Satchel liked his drink too much. Jane Vallens, his bride, was some years older than him, and was in a great hurry to get married. Andrew agreed to marry her because of the baby, but he didn't really want to get married, and Jane, poor thing, was afraid of losing him. She was very anxious to get him to church as soon as possible.

So she was very happy, early on a fine November morning, when she and Andrew walked to the church just outside her village. Andrew's brother and sister went with them, to be their witnesses. After the wedding Andrew and Jane planned to go down to Port Bredy and spend the day there, as a little holiday.

When Andrew left Longpuddle that morning, to walk to his bride's village, people said that he was walking all over the road, first one side, then the other. The night before, you see, he was at his neighbour's house, for a party to welcome a new baby. It was a good party, and Andrew had no sleep, and a lot of strong drink.

He got to the church with Jane, they walked inside, and the parson looked at Andrew very hard.

'What's this? You're drunk, my man! And so early in the morning, too! That's disgraceful!'

'Well, that's true, sir,' said Andrew. 'But I can stand, and I can walk. Better than a lot of people. You couldn't stand and walk after a party at Tom Forrest's house, could you, Parson? No, you couldn't!'

This answer didn't please Parson Billy Toogood a bit. He was strong on church business inside the church, but he was very different outside the church, I can tell you.

'I cannot marry you when you are drunk, and I will not!' he said. 'Go home and get sober!'

Then the bride began to cry. 'Oh Parson, please marry us, please!'

'No, I won't,' said Mr Toogood. 'I won't marry you to a man who is drunk. It's not right. I'm sorry for you, young woman, because I can see that you need to get married, but you must go home. How could you bring him here drunk like this?'

'But if he doesn't come drunk, he won't come at all, sir!' said Jane, still crying hard.

But Parson Toogood still said no.

'Well, sir,' said Jane, 'please will you go home and leave us here for two hours? When you come back, Andrew will be sober. But I want to stay here, because if Andrew goes out of this church unmarried, wild horses won't get him back here again!'

'Very well,' said Parson Toogood. 'I'll give you two hours, and then I'll come back.'

Andrew's brother and sister didn't want to wait all that time, so the church clerk sent them home. 'We'll find some other people to be witnesses,' he said.

Then the bride whispered in the parson's ear. 'Please, sir, will you lock the door — and not tell anyone we are here? And perhaps it will be better if you put us in the church tower. If we stay here in the church, people can look in the windows and see us and talk about it. And perhaps Andrew will try to get out and leave me!'

'All right,' said the parson. 'We'll lock you in.'

Then he and the church clerk went home, the parson into his house, and the clerk into the garden. The clerk worked for the parson, you see — in the garden, taking care of his horses, and that kind of thing. And both of them, parson and clerk, dearly loved following the hunt.

Well, on that day the hunt was meeting near the parson's village, and soon both the parson and the clerk could hear the noise of the horses, and the dogs, and everything. The clerk hurried into the house.

'Sir,' he said. 'The hunt's here, and your horses need a run very badly, sir. They haven't been out for days!'

'You're right,' said Parson Toogood. 'Yes, the horses must go out. Go and get them ready! We'll take them out, just for an hour, and then come back.'

So the clerk got the horses ready, and he and the parson rode off to find the hunt. When they got there, the parson found a lot of friends, and soon they were all talking and laughing together. Then the dogs found a fox, and away they all went — the huntsmen in their red coats, the squire from the big house with his friends, the farmers and their sons, and the parson and the clerk.

He was a great hunting man, was Parson Toogood. He forgot all about the unmarried man and woman locked in his church tower, and so did the clerk.

Across the fields they rode, over the hedges, through the rivers, in and out of woods, up and down the hills. It was a fine, exciting run that day, and the parson and the clerk enjoyed themselves very much. At one time the fox turned back, and ran right under the nose of Parson Toogood's horse.

'Halloo! Halloo!' shouted the parson. 'There he goes!' and away they all went again.

At last, late in the day, the hunt came to an end. The parson and the clerk were a long way from home, and their horses were tired. They rode home very slowly.

'Oh dear, my back does hurt!' said Parson Toogood.

'I can't keep my eyes open,' said the clerk. 'I'm so tired!'

It was dark when they got home. They made the horses comfortable, ate something, and fell into bed themselves.

The next morning, when Parson Toogood was having breakfast, the clerk came running in through the door.

'Oh sir!' he cried. 'Those two in the church tower — we forgot all about them! They'll still be there!'

Parson Toogood jumped up from his chair. 'Oh dear!' he said. 'Oh dear, oh dear! This is disgraceful!'

'It is, sir; very. And that poor woman...'

'Don't say it, clerk! If she's had the baby, and no doctor or nurse with her...Come on!'

So they both ran round to the church, looked up at the tower, and saw a little white face looking down at them. It was the bride.

'They're still there,' said the parson. He turned his face away. 'Oh dear, oh dear! What am I going to say to them? Is she all right, clerk? Can you see?'

'I don't know, sir. I can't see lower than her neck.'

'Well, how does her face look?'

'White, sir. Very, very white.'

'Well, we must go in and see them. Oh dear, oh dear! And my back still hurts from that ride yesterday!'

They went into the church and unlocked the tower door, and at once poor Jane and Andrew jumped out like hungry cats from a cupboard. Andrew was very sober now, and his bride was white in the face, but all right in other ways.

'Thank God for that!' said Parson Toogood. 'But why didn't you try to escape? Why didn't you shout from the top of the tower, to get help?'

'She didn't want me to,' said Andrew.

Jane began to cry again. 'It was the disgrace of it,' she said. 'We thought people would talk about it and laugh at us all our lives. So we waited and waited and waited — but you never came back, parson!'

'Yes, I'm sorry about that,' said Parson Toogood. 'Very sorry. But now, let's get on with the wedding.'

'I'd like something to eat first,' said Andrew. 'Just a piece of bread. I'm so hungry — I could eat a horse!'

'Oh, let's get married first,' said the bride anxiously, 'while the parson's still here. It won't take a minute.'

'Oh, all right,' said Andrew.

The clerk was one witness, and he called in a second witness (telling him not to talk about it). Very soon Andrew and Jane were husband and wife.

'Now,' said Parson Toogood, 'you two must come back to my house and eat a good meal.'

So they went back with the parson, and ate nearly every bit of food in his house.

They kept the secret for a while, but then the story got out, and everybody knew about their night in the church tower. Even Andrew and Jane laugh about it now. Andrew isn't much of a husband, it's true, but Jane got a ring on her finger and a name for her baby.

*　*　*

The carrier laughs loudly at the end of the postmistress's story. 'Did you know Andrew's uncle?' he asks John Lackland's son. 'He played in the church band.'

'The church band!' says Mr Lackland. 'Are they still playing their fiddles in the church every Sunday?'

'No,' I says Mr Profitt, the schoolteacher. 'They haven't played for twenty years or more. There's an organ in the church now. The young man who plays it is very good, but most people liked the fiddles better. Yes, everybody in Longpuddle was sorry when the church band stopped playing.'

'But why did they stop,' says John Lackland's son, 'if everybody liked them?'

And this is what the schoolteacher tells him.

anxious adj. uneasy and apprehensive about an uncertain event or matter; worried 焦虑的，担心的

witness n. one who can give a firsthand account of something seen, heard, or experienced 见证人

strong drink a drink containing a considerable percentage of alcohol 烈酒

drunk adj. intoxicated with alcoholic liquor to the point of impairment of physical and mental faculties 醉的

disgraceful adj. bringing or warranting disgrace; shameful 可耻的

sober adj. not drunk 清醒的

hunt n. a hunting expedition or outing, usually with horses and hounds 狩猎旅行

squire n. an English country gentleman, especially the chief landowner in a district 英国乡绅

hurt v. to have or produce a feeling of physical pain or discomfort 疼痛，不适

cupboard n. a closet or cabinet, usually with shelves for storing food, crockery, and utensils 碗橱

meal n. an amount of food eaten at one time, usu. consisting of two or more dishes 一餐

fiddle n. a violin 小提琴

organ n. an instrument consisting of a number of pipes that sound tones when supplied with air and a keyboard that operates a mechanism controlling the flow of air to the pipes 风琴

安德鲁、简、牧师和狐狸

这一切都是因为安德鲁·撒切尔太好酒。他的新娘简·瓦伦斯比他大几岁，急着结婚。安德鲁是因为没出生的孩子，才不得不答应结婚的，其实他根本不想讨老婆，而可怜的简很害怕失去他。她一心想着赶快把他弄进教堂。

所以，在一个天气很好的11月的早上，当她和安德鲁一起走向村外的教堂时，她非常开心。安德鲁的哥哥和姐姐跟他们一起去，为他们当见证人。婚礼之后，安德鲁和简打算去布莱迪港待上一天，算是次小小的度假。

那天早上，安德鲁离开长池村往新娘的村子走的时候，人们说他在路上晃晃悠悠的，一会儿走在路这边，一会儿又晃到路那边。你知道，前一天晚上，他在邻居家里参加了一个新生儿的庆祝会。那真是个不错的聚会，安德鲁一夜没睡，而且灌了不少烈酒。

他和简一起来到教堂，走了进去，被牧师狠狠地瞪了一眼。

“怎么回事？你喝醉了，伙计！而且是在一大早！这真丢人！”

“哦，没错，先生，”安德鲁说，“但我还能好好地站着，也能走路。我比好多人都强多了。你 从汤姆·弗罗斯特家的聚会里出来肯定既站不住也走不了，你能吗，牧师？不，你不能！”

比利·图古德牧师可一点儿也不喜欢这回答。他觉得在教堂里就应该有在教堂的样子，不过我可以告诉你，他在别的地方可根本不管那套。

“我不能在你醉醺醺的时候给你们举行婚礼，我绝不会那样做！”他说，“回家去清醒一下吧！”

这时，新娘哭了起来：“哦，牧师，请给我们举行婚礼吧，求你了！”

“不，我不会那样做，”图古德先生说，“我不会主持婚礼让你嫁个醉鬼。那是不对的。我为你感到难过，姑娘，我看得出你很需要这场婚礼，但你们必须回家去。他醉成这样，你怎么能把他带到这儿来？”

“可是如果他没喝醉的话，他根本就不会来的，先生！”简说着，哭得更厉害了。

可是图古德牧师还是不肯点头。

“好吧，先生，”简说，“你能先回家去，把我们留在这儿待两个小时吗？等你回来，安德鲁就清醒了。我想待在这里，因为如果安德鲁出了教堂却没结婚的话，就算九匹马也没法把他再拉回来了！”

“好吧，”图古德牧师说，“我就给你们两个小时，到时候我再回来。”

安德鲁的哥哥和姐姐不想等那么久，于是教堂执事就让他们回家了。“我们会找些别的人来当见证人的。”他说。

这时，新娘凑到牧师耳边小声说：“先生，你能把门锁上——而且别告诉任何人我们在这儿吗？或许你把我们锁在教堂塔楼上更好。如果我们就这么待在教堂里，人们会从窗子看到我们，然后说闲话的。而且安德鲁也可能会想溜出去，把我抛下！”

“好吧，”牧师说，“我们就把你们锁在塔楼上好了。”

一切办好之后，他和教堂执事就回家了。牧师回到自己的房子，教堂执事则进了花园。你知道，教堂执事是给牧师干活儿的——帮他照顾花园和马匹，还有类似的活计。而且牧师和教堂执事都特别喜欢跟狩猎旅行的队伍凑热闹。

哎呀，那天正好有一群参加狩猎旅行的人在牧师的村子旁边会合，不一会儿牧师和教堂执事就听到马蹄声和猎狗的叫声，还有熙熙攘攘的人声。教堂执事赶忙冲进了屋子。

“先生，”他说，“参加狩猎旅行的人到这里了，你的马也实在该好好遛一下了，先生。它们已经几天没出门了！”

“你说得对，”图古德先生说，“没错，马是得出去遛遛了。去准备好马！我们带它们出去，就一个小时，然后就回来。”

于是教堂执事把马备好，和牧师一起骑马去寻找狩猎旅行的队伍。他们到了那里，牧师见到了不少朋友，大家立刻热热闹闹地说笑起来。这时，猎狗发现了一只狐狸，所有人都赶了过去——穿红上衣的猎人，大宅里的乡绅和他的朋友们，农夫们和他们的儿子，还有牧师和教堂执事。

图古德牧师是个相当不错的猎人。他和教堂执事很快就把锁在教堂塔楼上还没完成婚礼的那对男女忘得一干二净。

他们骑马穿过田野，越过树篱，趟过小河，经过了一片片树林，翻过了一座座山丘。这一趟跑下来真是开怀又尽兴，牧师和教堂执事都玩得非常愉快。有一次，那只狐狸突然转头往回跑，就从图古德牧师的马前窜了过去。

“喂！喂！”牧师喊起来，“它往那儿跑了！”于是一群人调头又追过去。

天色将晚，狩猎旅行终于结束了。牧师和教堂执事这时已经离家很远了，而且马也筋疲力尽了。他们只好慢慢地骑马往回走。

“哦，天呐，我的背真疼！”图古德牧师说。

“我的眼睛都快睁不开了，”教堂执事说，“我好累啊！”

他们天黑才到家，把马匹安顿好，吃了点儿东西以后；就倒在床上睡了。

第二天早上，图古德牧师正在吃早饭，教堂执事慌慌张张地从门口跑进来。

“哦，先生！”他叫道，“教堂塔楼里那两个人——我们把他们全都忘了！他们肯定还在那儿呢！”

图古德牧师一下子从椅子上跳了起来。“哦，天呐！”他说，“哦，天呐！哦，天呐！这太丢人了！”

“没错，先生，太丢人了。而且那可怜的女人……”

“别说了，执事！如果她把孩子生了下来，而且又没有医生和护士在旁边……快来！”

他们匆匆忙忙地跑到教堂，朝塔楼上望去，看到一张苍白的小脸正向下看着他们，是那个新娘。

“他们还在那儿，”牧师说着把脸转到了一边，“哦，天呐！哦，天呐！我要怎么 跟他们说啊？她还好吧，执事？你能看见吗？”

“我不知道，先生。我只能看见她脖子以上的部分。”

“那她的脸看起来怎么样？”

“很白，先生，苍白极了。”

“好吧，我们必须进去看看他们。哦，天呐！哦，天呐！昨天骑马弄得我的背到现在还疼着呢！”

他们进了教堂，打开了塔楼的门锁。门一开，可怜的简和安德鲁就跳了出来，就像两只被关在碗橱里饿坏了的猫。安德鲁现在已经完全清醒了，而他的新娘除了脸色苍白，其他一切还好。

“感谢上帝！”图古德牧师说，“可你们为什么不想办法出来呢？你们干吗不在塔顶上喊人来帮忙？”

“她不想让我喊人来。”安德鲁说。

简又开始哭了起来。“那样太丢人了，”她说，“我们觉得别人会说闲话，拿这当笑柄笑话我们一辈子，所以我们就一直等啊等——可你却没来，牧师！”

“是的，我为这件事感到抱歉，”图古德牧师说，“非常抱歉。不过，现在让我们继续举行婚礼吧。”

“我想先吃点儿东西，”安德鲁说，“一块面包也好。我都饿扁了——饿得能吞下一匹马！”

“哦，让我们先结婚吧，”新娘担心地说，“趁牧师还在这里。用不了多久的。”

“哦，好吧。”安德鲁说。

教堂执事算是一位见证人，他又叫来了另一个见证人（还嘱咐那人别把这件事说出去）。很快，安德鲁和简就成了合法夫妻。

“好了，”图古德牧师说，“现在你们两位一定得到我家去好好吃上一顿。”

于是，他们跟牧师回去，把他家里能吃的东西几乎一扫而空。

他们的秘密保守了一段时间，但最后还是传了出去，现在人人都知道他们被关在教堂塔楼上过了一夜的事。如今，安德鲁和简也把这件事当成了笑话讲。安德鲁算不上一个好丈夫，但是简毕竟为自己弄到了一枚戒指，为她的孩子弄到了一个姓氏。

*　*　*

邮局女局长的故事讲完了，车夫大声笑起来。“你认识安德鲁的叔叔吗？”他问约翰·拉克兰的儿子。，“他在教堂的乐队里拉琴。”

“教堂的乐队！”拉克兰先生说，“他们每个星期天还在教堂里拉小提琴吗？”

“不，”学校教师普罗菲特先生说，“他们有二十多年没在教堂里拉琴了。现在教堂里有一架风琴。弹风琴的年轻人很不错，不过大多数人还是更喜欢以前的小提琴。是的，教堂的乐队不再拉琴以后，整个长池村的人都觉得很遗憾。”

“可如果大家都喜欢他们，他们为什么不拉琴了呢？”约翰·拉克兰的儿子问。

于是学校教师给他讲了这段故事。

The Church Band

It was on the Sunday after Christmas. That was the last time the band played in Longpuddle church, but they didn't know it at the time, of course.

They were a very good band, the best of all the villages around. There was Nicholas Puddingcome, who played the first fiddle. There was Timothy Thomas and John Biles on the other fiddles; and Dan Hornhead and Robert Dowdle played the oboes.

They didn't just play church music; they could play all kinds of dance music too. They often went out to play at dancing parties in people's homes or in the village inn. So one night they were in the squire's big house, playing nice Christmas songs, and drinking tea with all the squire's fine friends. And the next night they were down at the Dog and Fox, playing noisy dance music for twenty dancers, and drinking hot brandy-and-water.

Well, that Christmas week was a busy time for them. They were out at dance parties every night, and got very little sleep. Then came the Sunday after Christmas. It was cold that winter — oh my word, it was cold! And upstairs in the church gallery, it was even colder.

So when the band was playing on that Sunday morning, Nicholas Puddingcome said to the others:

'I can't feel my fingers, it's so cold. How can a man play the fiddle when he can't feel his fingers? This afternoon we'll have something to make us warm.'

So he brought a big jar of hot brandy-and-water to church in the afternoon. They put the jar inside Timothy Thomas's fiddle bag, which kept it nice and warm. And during that long afternoon in church, they all had a little glass now and then, so when the parson began his sermon, they were all feeling comfortable and warm. Unluckily for them, the sermon that day was a long one, and the parson went on and on and on. And every man in the band fell asleep, and they slept like babies all through the sermon.

It was a very dark afternoon, and by the end of the sermon you couldn't see very much inside the church. When the parson finished, he called for the last piece of music. But the band did not start playing, and people began to turn round and look up at the gallery. Then Levi Limpet, a boy who sat in the gallery, whispered to Nicholas, 'Begin! Begin!'

'Hey? What?' said Nicholas, and nearly fell out of his chair.

Then, because the church was dark and he was still half-asleep, he thought that he was at a party. The night before, you see, the band was playing all night at a party at the Dog and Fox, and Nicholas thought he was still there! So he took his fiddle and immediately began to play The Laughing Sailor — that was the favourite dance tune in our village that winter.

The rest of the band woke up suddenly, and hearing The Laughing Sailor , of course they just followed Nicholas. And away they all went, fiddles and oboes, as loudly as they could. They played that dance tune until the church walls shook with the sound.

Then Nicholas saw that nobody was moving. If people didn't know the dances, he often called out the moves to help them. And so he did that now.

'Up to the top, change hands, then back down the other side!' he shouted. 'Then turn around, once, twice, take hands, and back to the top again!'

The boy Levi was very frightened. He ran down the gallery stairs and out of the church as fast as his little legs could carry him. The parson's hair stood on end when he heard that wicked dance tune in his church. He held up his hand and cried, 'Stop, stop, stop! Stop, stop!'

But the band didn't hear him because of the noise of the music. The parson went on calling 'Stop, stop!' and the band went on playing.

Then people in the church began to stand up and talk. 'What's happening? Why are they playing this wicked music? Is it the Devil himself up there in the gallery?'

And the squire, too, stood up. He was there with all his fine friends, and he was very angry. He went and stood in front of the gallery, and shouted at the band.

'Stop this wicked noise! At once! D'you hear?'

The squire had a good, loud voice, and at last the band heard him, and stopped playing.

'Playing the Devil's music in church — in God's house!' said the squire. 'I have never heard anything so disgraceful in all my life — never!' Oh, he was so angry!

The parson came down and stood beside the squire. 'Never!' he said. 'Never!'

'The Devil is in you men!' said the squire. (He was a wicked man himself, the squire was, but that day he was all on God's side, of course.) 'And you will never ,' the squire went on, 'never, never play your fiddles in this church again! You have done a wicked thing today, and it must never happen again.'

By now the unhappy players knew that they were in church, and not in the Dog and Fox. They put their fiddles and their oboes under their arms, and very quietly they went down the gallery stairs and out of the back door of the church.

The parson was a kind man, and when he heard the true story later, he wasn't angry any more. He knew that Nicholas, Timothy and the rest weren't wicked men. But the squire — that was a different matter. He was a hard man, and when he said 'no more fiddles', he meant 'no more fiddles'. He sent away for an organ, and the next week, there it was in the church. He found a young man from a good family to play it, and the old band played no more in Longpuddle church.

*　*　*

After this story John Lackland's son asks about the young women of the village. 'Or those who were young when I left, all those years ago,' he says. 'They're all married now, I'm sure.'

'Let's see,' says the carrier. 'Do you remember Netty Sargent, sir?'

'Netty Sargent...Yes, I do. When I left, she was living with her uncle, wasn't she?'

'That's right. She was a bright young thing, Netty was. Nothing bad about her, you understand, just a little bit clever. She was very clever about the leasehold of her house, I remember.' The carrier looks round at his passengers. 'Who'll tell Mr Lackland that story, then?'

'My wife knew Netty when they were girls,' says the farmer, Mr Pawle. 'She can tell you.'

Nancy Pawle is a big, comfortable-looking woman. She laughs, and says, 'Oh yes, I can tell you all about Netty Sargent.'

oboe n. a musical instrument of the woodwind family, with a double reed, played by blowing 双簧管

inn n. a small pub or hotel, especially one in the countryside 小旅馆

gallery n. an upper level in a building such as a church 教堂里的楼上

sermon n. a religious discourse delivered as part of a church service 布道

frightened adj. full of fear 恐惧的

wicked adj. evil by nature and in practice 邪恶的

leasehold n. the fact or condition of holding property by lease 租借

教堂乐队

那是圣诞节之后的第一个星期天，也是那个乐队在长池村教堂的最后一次演奏。当然，那时候他们没料到事情会变成这样。

他们是个非常不错的乐队，在周围的几个村子里是最好的。尼古拉斯·帕丁康姆是第一小提琴，蒂莫西·托马斯和约翰·拜尔斯也拉小提琴，丹·霍恩海德和罗伯特·多德尔吹双簧管。

他们不光演奏教堂音乐，还会演奏各种各样的舞曲。他们常常到人们家里或村里的旅馆为舞会伴奏。头一天晚上，他们可能在乡绅的大宅子里演奏优美的圣诞乐曲，跟乡绅的贵客们一起喝茶。第二天晚上，他们可能又会在“猎狗和狐狸”旅馆演奏闹哄哄的舞曲，为20个跳舞的人伴奏，喝热的加水白兰地。

唉，圣诞节那个星期可真够他们忙活的，天天晚上有舞会，根本睡不了多少觉，就这样到了圣诞节后的那个星期天。那年冬天特别冷——老天，真是冷极了！而且教堂楼上乐队待的地方就更冷了。

所以，那个星期天早上乐队在教堂演奏的时候，尼古拉斯·帕丁康姆跟其他人说道：

“天太冷了，我的手指都被冻麻了。手麻了还怎么拉琴？今天下午我们得喝点儿东西，让身上暖和起来。”

于是，他下午带了一大罐热的加水白兰地去教堂。他们把罐子藏在蒂莫西·托马斯的琴袋里，好让酒一直暖着。那个漫长的下午，他们在教堂里待着，不时喝上一小杯，所以当牧师开始布道的时候，他们各个都觉得身上又暖和又舒服。不幸的是，那天的布道格外长，牧师一讲起来就没完没了。乐队的几个人全都睡着了，一直到布道结束还没醒。

那天下午天色很暗，布道结束的时候，教堂里已经看不太清楚了。牧师讲完了，宣布唱最后一首赞美诗，可乐队却没有动静，人们纷纷回头往楼上看。这时，一个坐在楼上的男孩，利瓦伊·林皮特悄悄对尼古拉斯说：“开始了！开始了！”

“啊？什么？”尼古拉斯差点儿从椅子上摔下来。

接着，因为教堂里很暗，半睡半醒之间，他以为自己是在舞会上。你知道，前一天晚上他们在“猎狗和狐狸”旅馆演奏了一整夜，而尼古拉斯以为自己还在那里！于是他拿起小提琴，立刻拉起了《大笑的水手》——这是那年冬天我们村里最受欢迎的舞曲。

乐队的其他人也突然醒过来，听到《大笑的水手》，自然也都跟着尼古拉斯演奏起来。他们就这么又吹又拉，而且还鼓足了劲儿，要多响有多响。热闹的舞曲把教堂的墙都震得直晃。

后来尼古拉斯才发现没有人动。如果人们对一种舞不太熟，他常常帮他们喊动作，现在他就这么做了。

“走到尽头，换手，再走到另一边！”他大声喊着，“然后转圈，一圈，两圈，拉手，再回到尽头！”

那个男孩利瓦伊吓坏了。他跑下楼梯，冲出教堂，一溜烟地不见了。牧师气得头发都竖起来了，他居然在自己的教堂里听到了这首邪恶的舞曲。他举起手来大喊：“停下，停下，停下！停下，停下！”

可是音乐的声音太大，乐队根本没听见他说话。牧师不停地喊“停下，停下！”，而乐队一刻也没停。

教堂里的人开始站起来议论纷纷：“出了什么事？他们为什么演奏这首邪恶的曲子？难道魔鬼本人就在楼上?”

乡绅也站了起来，他的贵客们也全在场，这让他非常生气。他冲到乐队对面，向楼上大声喊起来：

“停下这邪恶的噪音！马上停下！你们听见了吗？”

乡绅的嗓门很大，乐队这次总算听见了，停止了演奏。

“竟然在教堂里——在上帝的房子里演奏魔鬼的曲子！”乡绅说，“我这辈子还没听过这么丢人的曲子呢——从来没有！”哦，他气得直冒烟！

牧师也走下讲坛，站在乡绅旁边。“从来没听过，”他附和着，“从来没有！”

“你们被魔鬼附身了！”乡绅说。（乡绅其实不是个好东西，但那天他当然是站在上帝一边的。）“你们永远 ，”乡绅继续说道，“永远 ，永远 都别想再在这个教堂拉琴了！你们今天做了一件邪恶的事，这种事再也不能发生了。”

到这会儿，可怜的乐队才明白自己原来是在教堂，而不是“猎狗和狐狸”旅馆。他们夹着提琴和双簧管悄悄地下楼，从教堂后门溜走了。

牧师是个好人，后来听说了这件事的实情就不再生气了。他知道尼古拉斯、蒂莫西和另外几个人都不是坏人，但这在乡绅眼里就不是那么回事了。他是个冷酷又固执的人，只要说了“不准拉琴”，那就是“不准拉琴”，根本没商量。他派人买来了风琴，下一个星期就送到了教堂。他还找了个出身很好的年轻人来弹琴，原来的乐队再也没有在长池村的教堂里演奏过。

*　*　*

听完这个故事，约翰·拉克兰的儿子又问起了村里的年轻姑娘们。“或者说那些在我多年前离家时还年轻的姑娘们，”他说，“她们现在肯定都结婚了。”

“让我想想，”车夫说，“你还记得妮蒂·萨金特吗，先生？”

“妮蒂·萨金特……是的，我记得。我离开时，她和她叔叔住在一起，是吧？”

“没错。妮蒂是个聪明的小东西。你明白的，她不坏，就是有点儿小聪明。我记得她在房子租约那件事上做得就很聪明。”车夫扫视了一下他的乘客们，“谁来给拉克兰先生讲讲那件事？”

“我太太年轻的时候跟妮蒂很熟，”农夫波尔先生说，“她可以告诉你。”

南希·波尔是个高大、富态的女人。她笑着说：“哦，是的，我可以告诉你妮蒂·萨金特的一切。”

Netty Sargent and the House

Netty Sargent lived with her uncle in that lonely house just outside the grounds of the squire's big house. She was a tall young woman, with black hair and dancing eyes. And she had a little laughing smile that sent all the young men wild.

All the young men of that time were after her, but in the end she decided that Jasper Cliff was her favourite. He was good-looking, but he only ever thought about himself, not other people. But Netty wanted Jasper, and none of the others. Jasper liked Netty too, but he was more interested in her uncle's house.

The house was built by Netty's great-great-grandfather, and had a garden and a little field next to it. But it was a leasehold house, because the ground belonged to the squire.

'And what happens,' Jasper asked Netty one day, 'when your uncle dies?'

'The house, garden and field will go back to the squire,' said Netty. 'But if Uncle pays a few pounds, he can renew the leasehold and put another name on it. Then the squire can't get the house back until that person dies.'

'And what is your uncle going to do?' asked Jasper.

'Oh, he's going to renew the leasehold, and put my name on it. He told me that months ago.'

Netty's uncle knew that it was important to renew the leasehold, because the squire was very anxious to get the house back. The squire didn't like all those little leaseholds on his ground, and he wanted to pull the house down and make it all nice and tidy.

Netty's uncle knew this very well — but he still didn't renew the leasehold. He didn't like Jasper Cliff, so perhaps he didn't like to think of Jasper marrying Netty and living in the house when he was dead.

Every week Jasper asked Netty about the leasehold, and Netty asked her uncle, and her uncle said, 'I'll go and see the squire's agent next week.' But still nothing happened.

At last old Mr Sargent fell ill, and Jasper got tired of waiting. 'Why doesn't your uncle do it?' he asked Netty. 'I tell you, if you lose the house and ground, I won't marry you. And there's an end of it.'

Poor Nerty hurried indoors to talk to her uncle.

'Please do something, Uncle!' she said. 'If I don't get the house, I won't get a husband!'

'And you must have Jasper, must you, my dear?'

'Yes, Uncle, I must!'

Old Sargent didn't want to make Netty unhappy, so he asked for a meeting with the squire's agent. The squire was very cross when he heard this. He was hoping that old Sargent would die and the leasehold would come to an end. But he had to agree to renew the leasehold if Sargent paid the money. So the squire's agent got the new papers ready for old Sargent to sign.

By now Netty's uncle was really ill, and couldn't leave the house. The agent agreed to visit him. 'I'll come at five o'clock on Monday,' he told Netty, 'and Mr Sargent can pay the money and sign the papers then.'

At three o'clock on that Monday Netty brought her uncle a cup of tea. When she came in the room, her uncle gave a little cry and fell forward in his chair. Netty ran to him, but he could not speak or move. And in a few minutes, she saw that his face and hands were cold and white. He was dead, stone-cold dead.

Netty was very unhappy. 'Why didn't he live two more hours?' she thought. 'Now I've lost everything — house, garden, field, and a home for myself and my lover. What am I going to do now?'

Then, suddenly, she knew what she had to do. It was a dark December afternoon, which was very helpful for her. First, she locked the front door. Then she moved her uncle's table in front of the fire. Her uncle's body was still in his chair, which was a big old chair on wheels. So she pushed the chair, with her uncle in it, to the table, putting the chair with its back half-turned to the window.

On the table she put the large family Bible open in front of him, and put his finger on the page. Then she opened his eyes a little, and put his glasses on his nose. When it got dark, she lit a candle and put it on the table beside the Bible. Then she unlocked the door, and sat down to wait.

When she heard the agent's knock at five o'clock, she hurried to the door.

'I'm sorry, sir,' she whipered, 'Uncle's so ill tonight. I'm afraid he can't see you.'

The agent was not very pleased. 'So I've come out all this way for nothing, have I?'

'Oh, no, sir, I hope not,' said Netty. 'We can do the business about the leasehold, can't we?'

'Of course not. He must pay the money, and sign the leasehold papers in front of me. I have to be a witness.'

Netty looked worried. 'Uncle is so afraid of business things like this. His hands were shaking when I told him that you were coming today.'

'Poor old man — I'm sorry for him,' said the agent. 'But he must sign the papers, and I must be a witness.'

'Yes, I understand that, sir,' said Netty. She thought for a minute. 'You have to see him . But can you still be a witness, sir, if he doesn't see you ?'

'How do you mean, girl?' said the agent.

'Come with me a minute,' she said.

She took him into the garden and round to the window. Inside, the agent could see, at the other end of the room, the back and side of the old man's head, and his arm. He could see the glasses on his nose, and the book and the candle on the table.

'He's reading his Bible, sir,' said Netty, in her softest, sweetest voice.

'Yes, I see that,' said the agent. 'But nobody ever sees him in church, do they?'

'No, but he loves his Bible,' said Netty. 'I think he's sleeping a little at the moment, but that's not surprising in an old man, who's so unwell. Now, sir, can you stand here at the window and watch him sign the papers? Then he won't see you, and he won't be worried and unhappy about it all. Can you do that for him, sir?'

'Very well,' said the agent. He took out a cigar, lit it, and began to smoke. 'Have you got the money ready?'

'Yes,' said Netty. 'I'll bring it out.' She hurried inside, and brought out the money. The agent counted it, then gave Netty the leasehold papers.

'Uncle's hand is very shaky now,' she said. 'And he's so sleepy. I don't think he signs his name very well.'

'He doesn't have to have beautiful writing. He just has to sign,' said the agent.

'Can I hold his hand, to help him?'

'Yes, hold his hand, girl — that'll be all right.'

Netty went into the house, and the agent went on smoking his cigar outside the window. He saw Netty put the pen and the papers in front of her uncle, and touch his arm, and speak to him. She showed him where to write his name on the papers, and put the pen in his hand. Then she stood behind him, and held his hand. But the agent could still see a bit of his head, and he saw the old man's hand write his name on the papers.

Then Netty came out and gave the papers to the agent, and the agent signed his name as witness. He gave her the paper signed by the squire, and left.

And the next morning Netty told the neighbours that her uncle was dead in his bed.

So that's how Netty Sargent lost her house and field, and got them back again — with a husband. But Jasper was a mistake as a husband. After a few years he started hitting Netty — not very hard, but it made her angry. Then she told a neighbour about the leasehold business, and the story got around. By then the old squire was dead, and the squire's son got to hear the story. But Netty was a pretty young woman, and the squire's son never did anything about it.

*　*　*

Soon the carrier's wagon came down the hill into Longpuddle, and everybody got out and went home. John Lackland's son went to find a room at the Dog and Fox. He stayed in Longpuddle for a few days, walking around, looking at things, and talking to people. Then he left, and no one saw him again.

'Where did he go?' the schoolteacher asked Mrs Weedle in the post office one day.

'I don't know,' said Mrs Weedle. 'He didn't tell anyone. He just went.'

'Why did he come back to Longpuddle, do you think?'

'He said he just wanted to see the place where he was a child. But perhaps he came back to get a wife, and couldn't find one. Who knows?'

lonely adj. without companions; lone 单独的

dancing adj. flashing or twinkling 闪亮的

renew v. to arrange to extend the loan of 续租

tidy adj. orderly and neat in appearance 整洁的

agent n. one empowered to act for or represent another 代理人

sign v. to write (one's name) on (a written paper), esp. for official purposes, to show one's agreement 签字

unwell adj. being in poor health; sick 不舒服的，生病的

cigar n. a compact roll of tobacco leaves prepared for smoking 雪茄

shaky adj. trembling or quivering; tremulous 颤抖的

妮蒂·萨金特和房子

妮蒂·萨金特和叔叔一起住在一座孤零零的房子里，紧挨着乡绅大宅的土地。她是个高挑的姑娘，有着一头黑发和一双闪亮的眼睛。她咯咯笑起来的时候能让所有小伙子发疯。

当时所有的小伙子都在追求她，可她最后却看中了贾斯珀·克利夫。他长得不错，但老是只想着他自己，从不顾其他人。可是妮蒂就想要贾斯珀，别人都不行。贾斯珀也挺喜欢妮蒂，不过他对她叔叔的房子更感兴趣。

那房子是妮蒂的爷爷的爷爷建的，旁边还有一个花园和一小块田地，但建房的地是从乡绅那里租来的。

“你叔叔死后那房子会怎样？”有一天贾斯珀问妮蒂。

“房子、花园和田地都会被乡绅收回，”妮蒂说，“不过叔叔只要付几英镑，就可以续租，而且还能把租约转到另一个人名下。这样，在那个人死前，乡绅都不能把房子收回去。”

“那你叔叔打算怎么办？”贾斯珀问。

“哦，他打算续约，在上面换上我的名字。他几个月前就跟我说了。”

妮蒂的叔叔知道续约这件事非常重要，因为乡绅很想把房子收回。他不喜欢自己的地盘上有零碎的小块地被租出去，而且他想把这个房子拆掉，让这周围看起来整齐漂亮。

妮蒂的叔叔非常清楚乡绅的想法——但他还没有续约。他不喜欢贾斯珀·克利夫这个人，所以他大概也不希望自己死后，贾斯珀跟妮蒂结婚一起住到这个房子里。

每个星期贾斯珀都会问妮蒂租约的事，而妮蒂又会去问她叔叔，她叔叔总是说：“我下个星期就去见乡绅的代理人。”可是，一切都还是老样子，什么进展也没有。

最后，老萨金特先生病倒了，而贾斯珀也等得不耐烦了。“你叔叔干吗不去续约？”他问妮蒂，“我告诉你，你如果失去了那房子和田地，我是不会和你结婚的。我们俩的事就这么算了。”

可怜的妮蒂赶紧回到家找她叔叔商量。

“求你做点儿什么吧，叔叔！”她说，“如果我不能得到这房子，就没法结婚了！”

“而你非得跟贾斯珀结婚，是吗，亲爱的孩子？”

“是的，叔叔，我一定要跟他结婚！”

老萨金特不想让妮蒂伤心，于是向乡绅的代理人提出约个时间见面。乡绅听说了这件事非常生气。他原本期望老萨金特就这么死了，好让租约自动解除。但是，如果老萨金特现在付钱，那他就不得不跟他续约。于是，乡绅的代理人拟好了新的租约文件，准备拿给老萨金特签字。

妮蒂的叔叔这个时候已经病得很厉害了，根本没办法出门。代理人同意来见他。“我星期一下午5点过来，”他告诉妮蒂，“到时候萨金特先生可以交钱并且在文件上签字。”

星期一下午3点，妮蒂给她叔叔送茶。她刚进门，她叔叔就发出一声呻吟，垂下头瘫倒在椅子里。妮蒂赶忙跑过去，可他既说不出话，也动不了了。没几分钟，她就发现他的脸和手已经变得苍白冰冷。他死了，一丁点儿活气儿也没有了。

妮蒂难过极了。“他为什么不再多活两小时呢？”她想，“现在我什么都没了——房子、花园、田地，还有我和爱人的家。这下我究竟 该怎么办才好？”

突然，她知道自己该怎么办了。那是一个12月的午后，天色很暗，这帮了她的大忙。首先，她锁上了前门。然后，她把她叔叔的桌子挪到了壁炉前。她叔叔还在那把老旧的大轮椅上，于是她把轮椅和她叔叔一起推到了桌子前，让轮椅的背面斜对着窗子。

她把家里又大又厚的《圣经》放在桌子上，又把她叔叔的手指放在打开的书页上，然后把他的眼皮弄开一点儿，把眼镜架到他的鼻子上。天黑下来以后，她点了一根蜡烛，放在那本《圣经》旁边。最后，她把门锁打开，坐下来等。

5点，她听到代理人敲门，赶快来到门口。

“我很抱歉，先生，”她小声说，“我叔叔今晚很不舒服，恐怕不能见你。”

代理人不太高兴，“那我不是白折腾了这一趟？”

“哦，不，先生，我希望你没有白跑一趟，”妮蒂说，“租约的事情由我们来处理，这样可以吗？”

“当然不行，他必须交钱，然后当着我的面在租约上签字，我得当见证人。”

妮蒂看起来很担心，“我叔叔很怕这种生意上的事情。我跟他说你今天要来的时候，他的手都在发抖。”

“可怜的老人——我为他难过，”代理人说，“可他必须在文件上签字，而我也必须在一旁作证。”

“是的，我明白，先生，”妮蒂说着，想了想，“你必须看得到他 。可如果他 看不到你 ，你也可以当见证人吧，先生？”

“你这话是什么意思，姑娘？”代理人问。

“跟我来一下。”妮蒂说。

她带他走进花园，绕到窗子外面。代理人能看见房间另一头老人的后背和头、他的一只胳膊、他鼻子上的眼镜，还有桌上的书和蜡烛。

“他在读他的《圣经》，先生，”妮蒂用她最甜美轻柔的声音说。

“是的，我看得出来，”代理人说，“可没人见他去过教堂，不是吗？”

“确实是这样，但他很喜欢他的《圣经》，”妮蒂说，“我想他这会儿在打盹儿，不过上了年纪的病人这样也不稀奇。先生，你可不可以站在这里看着他在文件上签字？这样他就不会看见你，也不会觉得难受了。你能帮他这个忙吗，先生？”

“好吧，”代理人说着，掏出一支雪茄点上，抽了起来，“你把钱准备好了吗？”

“是的，”妮蒂说，“我这就拿出来。”她很快进屋拿来了钱。代理人清点了数目，把租约递给了妮蒂。

“我叔叔的手现在抖得厉害，”她说，“而且他困得迷糊了。我想他可能会签得不太好。”

“他用不着把字写得很漂亮，只要签上名字就行了。”代理人说。

“我能扶着他的手，帮他一下吗？”

“可以，帮他扶着手，姑娘——这没问题。”

妮蒂走进房子，代理人继续在窗外抽着雪茄。他看见妮蒂把笔和文件放在她叔叔跟前，碰了碰他的胳膊，跟他说了些什么，并把文件上要签名的地方指给他看，又把笔放到他手里。然后，她站到他身后，扶住了他的手。不过，代理人还是能看到一点儿老人的头，也看到老人的手在文件上签了字。

之后，妮蒂出来把文件交给代理人，代理人作为见证人也在上面签了字。最后，他把乡绅签好字的文件递给她，就离开了。第二天早上，妮蒂告诉邻居们她叔叔夜里睡觉的时候去世了。

这就是妮蒂·萨金特失而复得房子和田地的经过——当然，她还得到了一个丈夫。不过，嫁给贾斯珀是个错误。几年以后，他开始打妮蒂——打得不厉害，但却把她惹火了。后来，她跟一个邻居说了租约的事，这件事就传开了。那个时候，老乡绅已经死了，事情传到了他儿子那里。不过，妮蒂漂亮又年轻，乡绅的儿子从没理会过这件事。

*　*　*

很快，马车下了小山，进了长池村，乘客们纷纷下车回家了。约翰·拉克兰的儿子在“猎狗和狐狸”旅馆开了个房间，住了几天，到处走走看看，跟人们聊聊天，然后就离开了，从此再没有人见过他。

“他去了哪里？”学校教师一天在邮局问维德尔太太。

“我不知道，”维德尔太太说，“他没跟任何人打招呼，就这么走了。”

“你觉得他为什么回长池村来？”

“他说就是想看看小时候待过的地方。不过他也许是回来找老婆的，却没找到。谁知道呢？”

ACTIVITIESBefore Reading

1．Read the story introduction of the book. How much do you know now about the stories? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) John Lackland's son was born in Longpuddle.

YES □／NO □

2) He has lived in Longpuddle all his life.

YES □／NO □

3) The passengers on the wagon tell him stories about Longpuddle families.

YES □／NO □

4) Tony Kytes is a clever young man.

YES □／NO □

5) Tony Kytes is married.

YES □／NO □

6) All the girls like Tony Kytes.

YES □／NO □

7) The church band still play their fiddles in church.

YES □／NO □

8) Netty Sargent wanted her uncle's house.

YES □／NO □

9) One of the stories has an animal in it.

YES □／NO □

2．What is going to happen in these stories? Can you guess? Choose answers to complete these sentences. (You can choose more than one answer if you like.)

1) Tony Kytes...a) asks more than one girl to marry him.b) decides not to marry any of his girlfriends.c) is in big trouble with all his girlfriends.d) leaves home and goes to America.

a) asks more than one girl to marry him.

b) decides not to marry any of his girlfriends.

c) is in big trouble with all his girlfriends.

d) leaves home and goes to America.

2) In the story about Andrew and Jane...a) a fox comes into the church during their wedding.b) a fox eats their chickens while they are at church.c) Andrew shoots a fox in the parson's garden.d) the parson goes fox-hunting on their wedding day.

a) a fox comes into the church during their wedding.

b) a fox eats their chickens while they are at church.

c) Andrew shoots a fox in the parson's garden.

d) the parson goes fox-hunting on their wedding day.

3) The church band stop playing their fiddles in church...a) because nobody likes their music.b) because they play the wrong music one day.c) because they play very badly.d) because it's too cold in the church.

a) because nobody likes their music.

b) because they play the wrong music one day.

c) because they play very badly.

d) because it's too cold in the church.

4) To get her uncle's house, Netty Sargent...a) had to marry an old man.b) didn't tell the truth.c) used a dead body to help her.d) was very unkind to her brothers and sisters.

a) had to marry an old man.

b) didn't tell the truth.

c) used a dead body to help her.

d) was very unkind to her brothers and sisters.

3．You will find some of these things or people in the stories. Can you guess which ones? Tick some boxes.

□ cars

□ guitars

□ a parson

□ a footballer

□ wagons

□ fiddles

□ a doctor

□ a murderer

□ trains

□ pianos

□ a teacher

□ a farmer

□ horses

□ factories

□ a nurse

□ a bride

□ oboes

□ bicycles

□ a detective

□ telephones

ACTIVITIESWhile Reading

1．Read The Wagon to Longpuddle and Tony Kytes Finds a Wife. Then complete this passage with the right names.

When ______ was driving home from market, he gave ______ a ride in his wagon. Then he saw ______ in the road, and so he asked ______ to hide in the back of the wagon. _______ got into the wagon, but very soon ______ saw _______ looking out of a window. He told ______ that ______ wanted to marry him, and he asked ______ to hide under the sacks in the front of the wagon. When ______ got in, ______ had three girls in his wagon. He went to ask his father what to do, and left ______ holding the horse. But ______ saw ______'s foot under the tarpaulin and spoke to her. ______ heard voices, and then the horse moved off and turned the wagon over. In the end ______ asked all three girls to marry him — first ______, then _______, then _______, but only _______ said yes.

2．Read Andrew, Jane, the Parson, and the Fox to the bottom of page 30. Can you guess how the story ends? Choose answers to these questions.

1) When does the parson remember Andrew and Jane?a) That evening.b) In the night.c) The next day.d) Two days later.

a) That evening.

b) In the night.

c) The next day.

d) Two days later.

2) What do Andrew and Jane do during the day?a) Call for help.b) Climb out and go home.c) Have a fight.d) Just wait

a) Call for help.

b) Climb out and go home.

c) Have a fight.

d) Just wait

3) When do Andrew and Jane get married?a) That evening.b) The next day.c) The next week.d) Never.

a) That evening.

b) The next day.

c) The next week.

d) Never.

3．Read The Church Band , and then put these halves of sentences together.

1) The band drank hot brandy-and-water...

2) They didn't hear when the sermon finished...

3) When they woke up, they began to play dance music...

4) The squire bought an organ for the church...

5) because they thought they were still in the Dog and Fox.

6) because they were all sleeping like babies.

7) because he didn't want those wicked men to play their fiddles in church ever again.

8) because it was so cold in the church.

4．Read Netty Sargent and the House . Who said these words, and who were they talking to?

1) 'The house, garden and field will go back to the squire.'

2) 'If you lose the house and ground, I won't marry you.'

3) 'And you must have Jasper, must you, my dear?'

4) 'Can you still be a witness, ...if he doesn't see you ?'

5) 'Yes, hold his hand, ... — that'll be all right.'

ACTIVITIESAfter Reading

1．Here are some Longpuddle villagers talking. Who are they talking about? Complete the passages with the words below (one word for each gap).

agent, bride, clever, dead, held, hunt, husband, leasehold, like, locked, married, remember, same, signed, three, uncle, until, when, window, witness

1) '... So she asked the ______, who had to be the _______, to stand outside the ______. Then she took the ______ papers into the room, put them in front of her ______, spoke to him, and ______ his hand while he ______ his name. And all the time the old man was ______!'

2) 'No, he hasn't been out with the ______ for a long time. And I know why! He still feels bad about that time ______ he left a young man and his ______ in the church all night. They were ______ in the tower, and he didn't ______ them ______ the next day.'

3) 'Yes, they're getting ______ next Sunday. I don't know if he'll be a good ______ or not. All the girls ______ him, but he's not very ______. Somebody told me that he once asked ______ girls to marry him on the ______ day!'

2．Here is a new illustration for one of the stories. Find the best place for it, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in the story ______.

1) Who are these two people?

2) What is the man near the door saying?

3) Why are they both very worried?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption : ____________________________________

3．What did Nicholas say to the parson about the music, later that day? Put their conversation in the right order, and write in the speakers' names. Nicholas speaks first (number 3).

1) ______ 'Yes, it was. We weren't doing anything wicked.'

2) ______ 'We're going to have an organ. The squire has already sent away for it, and it'll be here by Friday.'

3) ______ 'It was like this, Parson. When we woke up, it —'

4) ______ 'But you were in church, not in the Dog and Fox!'

5) ______ 'Thank you, Parson! So can we play next Sunday?'

6) ______ 'And was that why you played dance music?'

7) ______ 'It was only a little sleep. We were tired, you see, because of playing last night in the Dog and Fox.'

8) ______ 'I'm afraid not. The squire said no more fiddles.'

9) ______ 'Yes, I know, but it was dark, we were half asleep, and we thought we were still at the dance!'

10) ______ 'Woke up? You were asleep during my sermon?'

11) ______ 'But who will play the music in church then?'

12) ______ 'I know you're not a wicked man, Nicholas. Nor are the others. All right, we'll say no more about it.'

Which part of the story did Nicholas not tell the parson?

4．What did Andrew and Jane say in the church tower? Finish Jane's words for her. (Use as many words as you like.)

ANDREW: It's nearly dark. What are we going to do, Jane?

JANE: We're going to ______.

ANDREW: But I'm hungry. We can't wait for him all night!

JANE: I'm sure ______.

ANDREW: Well, I think he's forgotten us. I'll go up and shout from the top of the tower, to get help.

JANE: _______.

ANDREW: Why not?

JANE: Because of the disgrace. Everybody ______.

ANDREW: Oh. Yes, they will, won't they? We'll just have to sit and wait then.

5．Here are some new titles for the stories. Which titles go with which stories? Which titles do you like best? Why?

A Night in the Tower

Dreaming of the Dog and Fox

A Wagon Full of Girls

Witness at the Window

The Leasehold Wedding

When the Fiddles Had to Stop

A Dead Man's Hand

Engaged Three Times

Milly Gets Her Man

A Dance Tune for the Squire

An Anxious Bride

The Call of the Hunt

6．What did you think about these stories? Choose some of the characters and complete these sentences.

1) I felt sorry for ______ because ______.

2) I thought ______ was clever/stupid when ______.

3) I thought ______ did a good/bad thing when ______.

4) I thought ______ was right/wrong to ______.

5) I liked it when ______.

京权图字：01-2006-3297

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

欧·亨利短篇小说集 = O. Henry's Short Stories／（美）亨利（Henry, O.）著；（英）莫厄特（Mowat, D.）改写；谭瀛洲译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2014.9 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6821-3

Ⅰ．欧…　Ⅱ．①亨…②莫…③谭…　Ⅲ．①英语—语言读物②短篇小说—作品集—美国—近代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第104931号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年8月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6821-3

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


是什么使一座城市异于另一座城市呢？是建筑、气候还是人？城市是由人塑造成的，要想了解一个城市，就必须要了解那个城市的人，了解他们的喜与悲以及他们日常生活的点点滴滴。

20世纪初期，在纽约生活的是怎样一群人呢？现在的纽约人和一百年前有没有不同？岁月流逝，城市越来越大，新的建筑拔地而起，旧的建筑倒下，大大小小的汽车取代了马车，时尚也在变化，但人没有变。这些故事里的纽约人各不相同，但不论是流浪者还是律师，他们的希望同样重要；不论是女招待还是女演员，她们的爱情也同样动人。而且我们可以看到，尽管时光飞逝，人们的希望、担忧和梦想并没有改变。





O. Henry's Short Stories


What makes one city different from another city? Is it the buildings, the weather, the people? It is the people who make a city, and to know a city, you must know its people. You must know what makes them laugh and cry, know the small details of their everyday lives.

What kind of people lived in New York at the beginning of the twentieth century? Are New Yorkers different now from a hundred years ago? Cities grow bigger with the years, new buildings are put up and old buildings are pulled down, horses are replaced by cars and buses, fashions change. But people do not change. The New Yorkers in these stories are very different from each other, but the hopes of a tramp are as important as the hopes of a lawyer; the love of a waitress is as exciting as the love of an actress. And we see that people's hopes and fears and dreams do not change with the years.





1The Christmas Presents


The Christmas Presents

One dollar and eighty-seven cents. That was all. Every day, when she went to the shops, she spent very little money. She bought the cheapest meat, the cheapest vegetables. And when she was tired, she still walked round and round the shops to find the cheapest food. She saved every cent possible.

Della counted the money again. There was no mistake. One dollar and eighty-seven cents. That was all. And the next day was Christmas.

She couldn't do anything about it. She could only sit down and cry. So she sat there, in the poor little room, and she cried.

Della lived in this poor little room, in New York, with her husband, James Dillingham Young. They also had a bedroom, and a kitchen and a bathroom — all poor little rooms. James Dillingham Young was lucky, because he had a job, but it was not a good job. These rooms took most of his money. Della tried to find work, but times were bad, and there was no work for her. But when Mr James Dillingham Young came home to his rooms, Mrs James Dillingham Young called him 'Jim' and put her arms round him. And that was good.

Della stopped crying and she washed her face. She stood by the window, and looked out at a grey cat on a grey wall in the grey road. Tomorrow was Christmas Day, and she had only one dollar and eighty-seven cents to buy Jim a Christmas present. Her Jim. She wanted very much to buy him something really fine, something to show how much she loved him.

Suddenly, Della turned round and ran over to look in the glass on the wall. Her eyes were bright.

Now, the James Dillingham Youngs had two very special things. One was Jim's gold watch. It once belonged to his father, and, before that, to his grandfather. The other special thing was Della's hair.

Quickly, Della let down her beautiful, long hair. It fell down her back, and it was almost like a coat around her. Then she put her hair up again, quickly. For a second or two she stood still, and cried a little.

Then she put on her old brown coat, and her old brown hat, turned, and left the room. She went downstairs and out into the road, and her eyes were bright.

She walked along by the shops, and stopped when she came to a door with 'Madame Eloise — Hair' on it. Inside there was a fat woman. She did not look like an 'Eloise'.

'Will you buy my hair?' Della asked.

'I buy hair,' Madame replied. 'Take your hat off, then, and show me your hair.'

The beautiful brown hair fell down.

'Twenty dollars,' Madame said, and she touched the hair with her hand.

'Quick! Cut it off! Give me the money!' Della said. The next two hours went quickly. Della was happy because she was looking round the shops for Jim's present.

At last she found it. It was a gold chain for The Watch. Jim loved his watch, but it had no chain. When Della saw this gold chain, she knew immediately that it was right for Jim. She must have it.

The shop took twenty-one dollars from her for it, and she hurried home with the eighty-seven cents.

When she arrived there, she looked at her very short hair in the glass. 'What can I do with it?' she thought. For the next half an hour she was very busy.

Then she looked again in the glass. Her hair was now in very small curls all over her head. 'Oh, dear. I look like a schoolgirl!' she said to herself. 'What's Jim going to say when he sees me?'

At seven o'clock the dinner was nearly ready and Della was waiting. 'Oh, I hope he thinks that I'm still beautiful!' she thought.

The door opened and Jim came in and closed it. He looked very thin and he needed a new coat. His eyes were on Della. She could not understand the look on his face, and she was afraid. He was not angry or surprised. He just watched her, with that strange look on his face.

Della ran to him.

'Jim,' she cried. 'Don't look at me like that. I sold my hair because I wanted to give you a present. It will soon be long again. I had to do it, Jim. Say "Happy Christmas", please. I have a wonderful present for you!'

'You've cut off your hair?' asked Jim.

'Yes. I cut it off and sold it,' Della said. 'But don't you love me any more, Jim? I'm still me.'

Jim looked round the room.

'You say your hair has gone?' he said, almost stupidly.

'Yes. I told you. Because I love you! Shall I get the dinner now, Jim?'

Suddenly Jim put his arms round his Della. Then he took something from his pocket and put it on the table.

'I love you, Della,' he said. 'It doesn't matter if your hair is short or long. But if you open that, you'll see why I was unhappy at first.'

Excited, Della pulled off the paper. Then she gave a little scream of happiness. But a second later there were cries of unhappiness.

Because there were The Combs — the combs for her beautiful hair. When she first saw these combs in the shop window, she wanted them. They were beautiful combs, expensive combs, and now they were her combs. But she no longer had her hair!

Della picked them up and held them. Her eyes were full of love.

'But my hair will soon be long again, Jim.'

And then Della remembered. She jumped up and cried, 'Oh! Oh!' She ran to get Jim's beautiful present, and she held it out to him.

'Isn't it lovely, Jim? I looked everywhere for it. Now you'll want to look at your watch a hundred times a day. Give it to me! Give me your watch, Jim! Let's see it with its new chain.'

But Jim did not do this. He sat down, put his hands behind his head, and he smiled.

'Della,' he said. 'Let's keep our presents for a time. They're so nice. You see, I sold the watch to get the money to buy your combs. And now, let's have dinner.'

And this was the story of two young people who were very much in love.

cheap adj. low in price and good value for money 廉价的，便宜的

cheap

save v. to keep something for future use, not to spend 节省，储存

save

possible adj. that can exist, happen, or to be done 可能的

possible

times n. a period of time 时期

times

special adj. not common, usual or general 特殊的，特别的

special

belong to to be the properly of somebody 属于

belong to

touch v. to press lightly with the hand 轻触，轻碰

touch

chain n. a lot of very small metal rings joined together 链子

chain

curl n. a little ring of hair 发卷

curl

look n. the way of looking 表情

look

stupidly adv. foolishly 愚蠢地，傻乎乎地

stupidly

scream n. a loud cry or noise 尖叫

scream

comb n. a piece of metal or wood with long teeth which women use to put up their long hair 发梳

comb

pick up to take something in the hand 拿起，拣起

pick up

lovely adj. very nice, beautiful 可爱的，漂亮的

lovely





1． 圣诞礼物


1块8毛7分钱。就这么多。她每天去商店都尽量少花钱，买最便宜的肉、最便宜的蔬菜。即便是累了，她还是在商店里一圈又一圈地转悠，寻找最便宜的食品。已经是能省一分就省一分了。

德拉又把钱数了一遍。没错，就是1块8毛7分钱。就这些。可明天就是圣诞节了。

她无计可施，只有坐下来哭了。于是她坐了下来，在这破破烂烂的小屋子里哭了起来。

德拉和丈夫詹姆斯·迪林厄姆·扬住在纽约这所破烂的小屋子里。他们还有一间卧室、一间厨房和一个卫生间——都是又小又差的房间。詹姆斯·迪林厄姆·扬很幸运，因为他有一份工作，不过不是什么好工作。他挣的大部分钱都花在这所小屋子的租金上了。德拉努力地找过工作，但世道太糟，她没找到工作。不过每当詹姆斯·迪林厄姆·扬先生回家时，詹姆斯·迪林厄姆·扬太太都会叫他“吉姆”，并拥抱他。这还是幸福的。

德拉不哭了，洗了洗脸。她站在窗口望出去，灰色的路上有一堵灰色的墙，墙上有只灰色的猫。明天就是圣诞节了，可她只有1块8毛7分钱给吉姆买圣诞礼物。她的吉姆！她非常想给他买件不错的礼物，一件能代表她有多爱他的礼物。

突然，德拉转身跑到墙上的镜子前。她的眼前一亮。

詹姆斯·迪林厄姆·扬夫妇有两样非同寻常的东西。一样是吉姆的金表。那表过去属于他父亲，再之前是他祖父的。另一样就是德拉的头发。

德拉飞快地放下她那美丽的长发。长发滑落到背上，几乎像一件上衣一样裹着她。然后她又迅速地把头发挽起来。有那么一会儿，她愣愣地站在那儿。轻轻地哭泣。

然后她穿上了那件旧的棕色大衣，戴上了棕色的旧帽子，转身出了家门。她跑下楼去，来到街上，眼中闪着光。

她沿着商店一路走着，在一家门上写着“埃洛伊丝夫人——买卖头发”的店铺前停了下来。门里面有一个胖女人，看上去不像是“埃洛伊丝”。

“您买我的头发吗？”德拉问道。

“我买头发，”那位夫人回答道，“把帽子摘下来，让我看看你的头发。”

美丽的褐色长发垂落下来。

“20块钱。”夫人说，她摸了摸德拉的头发。

“快点！剪吧！把钱给我！”德拉说。接下来的两个小时过得太快了。德拉快乐地在商店里逛来逛去，给吉姆选礼物。

她终于找到了中意的礼物，那是一条金表链，正好配“那块表”。吉姆非常喜欢那块表，可是那表没有表链。德拉一看到这条金表链就觉得它配吉姆的表再合适不过了。她一定得把它买下来。

商店收了她21块钱，她带着剩下的8毛7分钱匆匆地回家了。

回家以后，她从镜子里打量着自己的短头发。“我该怎么打理一下呢？”她想。接下来的半个小时里，她忙成了一团。

然后她又照了照镜子。现在她满头都是小卷卷儿。“哦，天哪！我看上去像个小女生！”她自言自语道，“吉姆看到我会怎么说呢？”

7点钟，晚餐就快做好了，德拉等着吉姆回来。“哦，我希望他觉得我还是美丽的。”她想。

门开了，吉姆进来后，把门关上。他看上去非常瘦，而且需要一件新大衣。他的目光落在德拉身上。她弄不懂他的表情，有点怕了。他没生气，也不是吃惊，只是望着她，一脸古怪的神情。

德拉向他跑去。

“吉姆，”她大声说，“别这样看着我。我卖掉了头发，因为我想给你买件礼物。头发很快会再长起来的。我不得不这么做，吉姆。说‘圣诞快乐’吧，求你了。我给你准备了一样好得不得了的礼物！”

“你把头发剪啦？”吉姆问道。

“对，我把它剪了，卖了，”德拉说，“难道你不再爱我了吗，吉姆？我还是我呀。”

吉姆环视了一下屋子。

“你是说你的长头发没了？”他傻乎乎地说。

“是，我是这么说的。因为我爱你！现在我把晚饭端上来好吗，吉姆？”

突然间吉姆伸出手臂搂住了德拉。然后，他从口袋里掏出一样东西放在桌上。

“我爱你，德拉，”他说，“你的头发是长是短都没关系。可是你打开这个，就会明白我开始为什么不高兴了。”

德拉兴奋地拆开纸包。然后她快活地尖叫了一声，不过随后就难过地哭起来了。

因为纸包里是“那套梳子”——正好配她美丽长发的那套梳子。她在商店橱窗里第一次看到的时候就想要。那真是一套漂亮的梳子，贵重的梳子，现在是她的了。可她的长发已经没了！

德拉把梳子拿起来，捧在手里。她眼睛里满是柔情。

“可是我的头发很快会再长起来的，吉姆。”

然后德拉想起自己的礼物。她跳了起来，叫道：“哦，哦！”她跑去把给吉姆的漂亮礼物拿过来，递给他。

“好看吗，吉姆？我找遍了大街小巷才找到的。现在你一定想一天看一百次表了。给我，把你的表给我，吉姆！我们看看它配上新链子怎么样。”

但是吉姆没有给她。他坐下来，把手放在脑后，笑了起来。

“德拉，”他说，“我们把礼物搁一段时间吧。它们太珍贵了。你看，我卖了表，好拿钱给你买梳子。现在，我们吃饭吧。”

这就是两个彼此相爱的年轻人的故事。





2Soapy's Choice


Soapy's Choice

Soapy sat on a seat in Madison Square, New York, and looked up at the sky. A dead leaf fell onto his arm. Winter was coming, and Soapy know that he must make his plans. He moved unhappily on his seat.

He wanted three months in a nice, warm prison, with food and good friends. This was how he usually spent his winters. And now it was time, because, at night on his seat in the square, three newspapers did not keep out the cold.

So Soapy decided to go to prison, and at once began to try his first plan. It was usually easy. He ate dinner in an expensive restaurant. Then he told them he had no money and they called a policeman. Nice and easy, with no trouble.

So Soapy left his seat, and walked slowly along the street. Soon he came to a bright restaurant on Broadway. Ah! This was all right. He just had to get to a table in the restaurant and sit down. That was all, because, when he sat down, people could only see his coat and his shirt, which were not very old. Nobody could see his trousers. He thought about the meal—not too expensive, but good.

But when Soapy went into the restaurant, the waiter saw Soapy's dirty old trousers and terrible shoes.

Strong hands turned him round and helped him out into the street again.

So now he had to think of something different. Soapy walked away from Broadway and soon he found himself on Sixth Avenue. He stopped in front of a shop window and looked at it. It was nice and bright, and everybody in the street could see him. Slowly and carefully he picked up a stone and threw it at the window. The glass broke with a loud noise. People ran round the corner and Soapy was happy, because the man in front was a policeman. Soapy did not move. He stood there with his hands in his pockets, and he smiled. 'I'll soon be in prison now,' he thought.

The policeman came up to Soapy, 'Who did that?' he asked.

'Perhaps I did,' Soapy replied.

But the policeman knew that people who break windows do not stop to talk to policemen. They run away. And just then the policeman saw another man, who was running to catch a bus. So the policeman ran after him. Soapy watched for a minute. Then he walked away. No luck again! He began to feel cross.

But on the opposite side of the road he saw a little restaurant. 'Ah, that'll be all right,' he thought, and he went in. This time nobody looked at his trousers and his shoes. He enjoyed his meal, and then he looked up at the waiter, smiled and said, 'I haven't got any money, you know. Now, call the police. And do it quickly, I'm tired!'

'No police for you!' the waiter answered. 'Hey! Jo!'

Another waiter came, and together they threw Soapy out into the cold street. Soapy lay there, very angry. With difficulty, he stood up. His nice warm prison was still far away, and Soapy was very unhappy. He felt worse because a policeman, who was standing near, laughed and walked away.

Soapy moved on, but he walked for a long time before he tried again. This time it looked easy.

A nice young woman was standing in front of a shop window. Not very far away there was also a policeman. Soapy moved nearer to the young woman. He saw that the policeman was watching him. Then he said to the young woman, with a smile, 'Why don't you come with me, my dear? I can give you a good time.'

The young woman moved away a little and looked more carefully into the shop window. Soapy looked at the policeman. Yes, he was still watching. Then he spoke to the young woman again. In a minute she would call the policeman. Soapy could almost see the prison doors. Suddenly, the young woman took hold of his arm.

'OK,' She said happily. 'If you buy me a drink. Let's go before that policeman sees us.'

And poor Soapy walked away with the young woman, who still held on to his arm. He was very unhappy.

At the next corner he ran away from the woman. Suddenly he was afraid. 'I'm never going to get to prison,' he thought.

Slowly, he walked on and came to a street with a lot of theatres. There were a lot of people there, rich people in their best clothes. Soapy had to do something to get to prison. He did not want to spend another night on his seat in Madison Square. What could he do? Then he saw a policeman near him, so he began to sing and shout and make a lot of noise. This time they must send him to prison. But the policeman turned his back to Soapy and said to a man who was standing near, 'He's had too much to drink, but he's not dangerous. We'll leave him alone tonight.'

What was the matter with the police? Soapy was really unhappy now, but he stopped making a noise. How could he get to prison? The wind was cold, and he pulled his thin coat around him.

But, just then, inside a shop, he saw a man with an expensive umbrella. The man put his umbrella down near the door, and took out a cigarette. Soapy went into the shop, picked up the umbrella, and, slowly, he began to walk away. The man came quickly after him. 'That's my umbrella,' he said.

'Oh, is it?' Soapy replied. 'Then why don't you call a policeman? I took it, and you say it's your umbrella. Go on, then. Call a policeman! Look! There's one on the corner.'

The umbrella man looked unhappy. 'Well, you know, perhaps I've made a mistake. I took it from a restaurant this morning. If it's yours, well, I'm very sorry...'

'Of course it's my umbrella,' Soapy said.

The policeman looked at them—and the umbrella man walked away. The policeman went to help a beautiful young girl to cross the road.

Soapy was really angry now. He threw the umbrella away and said many bad things about policemen. Just because he wanted to go to prison, they did not want to send him there. He could do nothing wrong!

He began to walk back to Madison Square and home— his seat.

But on a quiet corner, Soapy suddenly stopped. Here, in the middle of the city, was a beautiful old church. Through one purple window he could see a soft light, and sweet music was coming from inside the church. The moon was high in the sky and everything was quiet. For a few seconds it was like a country church and Soapy remembered other, happier days. He thought of the days when he had a mother, and friends, and beautiful things in his life.

Then he thought about his life now—the empty days, the dead plans. And then a wonderful thing happened. Soapy decided to change his life and be a new man. 'Tomorrow,' he said to himself, 'I'll go into town and find work. My life will be good again. I'll be somebody important. Everything will be different. I'll...'

Soapy felt a hand on his arm. He jumped and looked round quickly—into the face of a policeman!

'What are you doing here?' asked the policeman.

'Nothing,' Soapy answered.

'Then come with me,' the policeman said.

'Three months in prison,' they told Soapy the next day.

prison n. a place where people are kept locked up as a punishment 监狱

prison

keep out not to expose somebody to something 挡住

keep out

waiter n. a man who works in a restaurant and brings food to the table 服务员

waiter

avenue n. a wide street lined with trees or tall buildings 大街，大道

avenue

throw v. to move your arm quickly to send something through the air 扔，抛

throw

cross adj. rather angry 恼怒的

cross

difficulty n. trouble or effort 困难，难度

difficulty

almost adv. nearly 几乎，差不多

almost

take hold of to take somebody or something in the hands 抓住，握住

take hold of

run away from to escape from somebody or place 从某人处／某处逃走

run away from

dangerous adj. likely to cause danger 危险的

dangerous

umbrella n. a cover on a stick that you hold over you to keep the rain off 伞

umbrella

cigarette n. a roll of tobacco enclosed in thin paper for smoking 香烟

cigarette

soft adj. restful and pleasant to the senses, esp. the eyes （感觉，尤指视觉上） 柔和的

soft

empty adj. lacking emotion, interest, or purpose 空虚的

empty

dead adj. no longer considered likely to be successful 失败的

dead





2． 索比的选择


索比坐在纽约麦迪逊广场的长椅上，望着天空。一片枯叶落在他手臂上。冬天来了，索比知道一定得早作打算了。他满腹不快地在长椅上辗转反侧。

他想找一个温暖宜人的监狱，有食物、有朋友的，去那儿过上三个月。他通常都是这么过冬的。现在又到时候了，因为入夜之后，他躺在广场的椅子上，三张报纸都已经抵挡不住寒意了。

因此索比决定进监狱，并且马上开始尝试第一套方案。通常都是很简单的。他去一家昂贵的餐馆吃上一顿，然后告诉人家自己一个钱都没有，他们就会叫警察来。妙极了，很简单，毫无问题。

于是，索比离开了长椅，慢慢地沿街走着。他很快到了百老汇大街上一家明亮的餐馆外。啊！这家还不错。他只要走进餐馆，找个桌子坐下，就好了。因为他一旦坐下，人家就只能看到他的外套和衬衫，这两样都不太旧。谁也看不到他的长裤。他想着美餐——不要太贵，可是要吃好。

可是索比走进餐馆时，服务员看见了他又脏又旧的长裤，还有破破烂烂的鞋子。

几只有力的大手把索比转了个圈儿，把他赶到了街上。

所以他还得想个别的招儿。索比走过百老汇大街，很快到了第六大道。他在一家商店外停下，看着橱窗。这儿明亮、整齐，而且街上人人都看得到他。他慢慢地、小心翼翼地捡起一块石头，照着橱窗砸去。一声巨响，玻璃碎了。人们绕过街角朝这边跑来，索比很高兴，因为跑在前面的就是一位警察。索比没有动。他站在那儿，手插在兜里，微笑着。“很快我就可以进监狱了。”他想。

警察走到索比面前问道：“谁干的？”

“也许是我。”索比回答说。

但是警察知道，砸了玻璃的人是不会等在那儿跟警察说话的。他们早跑了。就在这时，警察看到另一个人正跑着，想赶上一辆公共汽车。于是，警察就去追那个人了。索比看了一会儿，然后走开了。又不走运！他开始有点恼怒了。

不过，他在路对面看到了一家小餐馆。“啊，正好。”他想着便走了进去。这次没人看他的长裤和鞋子。他享用了晚餐，然后抬头看看服务员，微笑着说：“我一个钱也没有。明白吗？现在叫警察吧。快点儿，我累了！”

“不用叫警察！”服务员回答，“嘿！乔！”

又过来一个服务员，他们俩一起把索比扔了出去，丢在冰冷的街上。索比躺在那儿，气极了。他艰难地站了起来。他所期盼的那温暖宜人的监狱仍然遥不可及，索比沮丧极了。一个警察就站在近旁，可是他却大笑着走开了，这叫索比更为懊恼。

索比继续往前走去，但这一次他走了很久才去做再一次的尝试。这一次似乎很容易。

一位漂亮的年轻女人站在一家商店的橱窗前。离那儿不远的地方就有一个警察。索比朝那位年轻女人走近了一些。他看到警察在看着他。然后他笑咪咪地对那女人说：“跟我来吧，宝贝儿？我会叫你快活的。”

那年轻女人走开了一点儿，更认真地看着橱窗里面。索比瞧了瞧警察。没错，他还在往这边儿看。于是，他又去跟那年轻女人搭话。不消一分钟，她就会叫警察。索比几乎都看见监狱的大门了。突然，那年轻女人抱住了他的手臂。

“好啊，”她快活地说，“只要你给我买一杯喝的。我们走吧，别叫那警察看见。”

可怜的索比只好跟这个年轻女人走开了，她还抱着他的手臂不放。他感到难过极了。

到了下一个街角，他从那女人身边逃开了。刹那间，他害怕了。“我永远也进不了监狱了。”他想。

他慢慢地走着，来到一条有许多家剧院的街上。那儿有好多人，有钱人都穿着最好的衣服。索比一定得干点儿什么，好进监狱。他可不想在麦迪逊广场的长椅上再过一夜了。他能干点儿什么呢？他看到一个警察就在身边，所以开始大唱大叫，弄出许多声响来。这一次他们总得送他进监狱了吧。但是，警察背过身去，向站在近旁的一个男人说：“他喝多了，但不会有什么危险。今天晚上我们就不管他了。”

警察到底是怎么啦？索比现在真是沮丧透了。不过他不再闹腾了。怎么才能进监狱啊？风很冷，他裹紧了薄薄的外套。

但是，就在这时，他看到一家商店里有个男人拿着把昂贵的伞。那人把伞放在门口，取出一支香烟来。索比走进店里，拿起那把伞，而且，慢吞吞地，要走开了。那男人迅速跟过来。“那是我的伞。”他说。

“哦，是吗？”索比回答说，“那干吗不叫警察呢？我拿了这把伞，而且你说这是你的伞。那么去吧，叫警察来！看！街角那儿就有一个。”

伞的主人似乎很不安。“好吧，你知道，也许是我弄错了。我是今天早上从一家餐馆拿的这把伞。如果是你的，那么，我很抱歉……”

“这当然是我的伞。”索比说。

警察看着他们——伞的主人走开了。警察去帮助一位漂亮姑娘过马路去了。

索比现在恼怒至极。他把伞扔到一边，把警察骂了个够。就因为他想进监狱，而他们偏不想送他进去。他怎么都干不成坏事儿！

他开始走回麦迪逊广场——他的家——那把长椅。

但是在一个僻静的角落，索比突然停住了脚步。那儿，在城市的中心，有一座美丽的老教堂。透过一扇紫色的窗子，他看到一点柔和的光亮，教堂里传出悦耳的音乐。月亮高高地挂在天空，周遭一片宁静。有那么片刻的时间，这儿感觉很像一个乡村教堂，索比记起了从前的快乐时光。他想到过去那些日子，那时他有母亲，有朋友，还拥有生命里许多美好的东西。

然后他想到现在的生活——空虚的日子、失败的计划。于是，一件奇妙的事情发生了。索比决定改变生活，重新做人。“明天，”他对自己说，“我要进城找工作。我的生活会重新好起来的。我会成为大人物。一切都会不同。我要……”

索比感觉到一只手搭在他臂上。他跳了起来，迅速回头看去——看到了一张警察的脸！

“你在这儿干什么？”警察问道。

“什么也没干。”索比回答。

“那么跟我走吧。”警察说。

“监禁三个月。”第二天，他们对索比说。





3A Walk in Amnesia


A Walk in Amnesia

That morning my wife and I said our usual goodbyes. She left her second cup of tea, and she followed me to the front door. She did this every day. She took from my coat a hair which was not there, and she told me to be careful. She always did this. I closed the door, and she went back to her tea.

I am a lawyer and I work very hard. My friend, Doctor Volney, told me not to work so hard. 'You'll be ill,' he said. 'A lot of people who work too hard get very tired, and suddenly they forget who they are. They can't remember anything. It's called amnesia. You need a change and a rest.'

'But I do rest,' I replied. 'On Thursday nights my wife and I play a game of cards, and on Sundays she reads me her weekly letter from her mother.'

That morning, when I was walking to work, I thought about Doctor Volney's words. I was feeling very well, and pleased with life.

When I woke up, I was on a train and feeling very uncomfortable after a long sleep. I sat back in my seat and I tried to think. After a long time, I said to myself, 'I must have a name!' I looked in my pockets. No letter. No papers. Nothing with my name on. But I found three thousand dollars. 'I must be someone,' I thought.

The train was crowded with men who were all very friendly. One of them came and sat next to me. 'Hi! My name's R. P. Bolder — Bolder and Son, from Missouri. You're going to the meeting in New York, of course? What's your name?'

I had to reply to him, so I said quickly, 'Edward Pinkhammer from Cornopolis, Kansas.'

He was reading a newspaper, but every few minutes he looked up from it, to talk to me. I understood from his conversation that he was a druggist, and he thought that I was a druggist, too.

'Are all these men druggists?' I asked.

'Yes, they are,' he answered. 'Like us, they're all going to the yearly meeting in New York.'

After a time, he held out his newspaper to me. 'Look at that,' he said. 'Here's another of those men who run away and then say that they have forgotten who they are. A man gets tired of his business and his family, and he wants to have a good time. He goes away somewhere and when they find him, he says that he doesn't know who he is, and that he can't remember anything.'

I took the paper and read this:

Denver, June 12th

Elwyn C. Bellford, an important lawyer in the town, left home three days ago and has not come back. Just before he left, he took out a lot of money from his bank. Nobody has seen him since that day. He is a quiet man who enjoys his work and is happily married. But Mr Bellford works very hard, and it is possible that he has amnesia.

'But sometimes people do forget who they are, Mr Bolder,' I said.

'Oh, come on!' Mr Bolder answered. 'It's not true, you know! These men just want something more exciting in their lives—another woman, perhaps. Something different.'

We arrived in New York at about ten o'clock at night. I took a taxi to a hotel, and I wrote the name, 'Edward Pinkhammer', in the hotel book. Suddenly I felt wild and happy—I was free. A man without a name can do anything.

The young man behind the desk at the hotel looked at me a little strangely. I had no suitcase.

'I'm here for the Druggists' Meeting,' I said. 'My suitcase is lost.' I took out some money and gave it to him.

The next day I bought a suitcase and some clothes and I began to live the life of Edward Pinkhammer. I didn't try to remember who or what I was.

The next few days in Manhattan were wonderful—the theatres, the gardens, the music, the restaurants, the night life, the beautiful girls. And during this time I learned something very important—if you want to be happy, you must be free.

Sometimes I went to quiet, expensive restaurants with soft music. Sometimes I went on the river in boats full of noisy young men and their girlfriends. And then there was Broadway, with its theatres and bright lights.

One afternoon I was going back into my hotel when a fat man came and stood in front of me.

'Hello, Bellford!' he cried loudly. 'What are you doing in New York? Is Mrs B. with you?'

'I'm sorry, but you're making a mistake, sir,' I said coldly. 'My name is Pinkhammer. Please excuse me.'

The man moved away, in surprise, and I walked over to the desk. Behind me, the man said something about a telephone.

'Give me my bill,' I said to the man behind the desk, 'and bring down my suitcase in half an hour.'

That afternoon I moved to a quiet little hotel on Fifth Avenue.

One afternoon, in one of my favourite restaurants on Broadway, I was going to my table when somebody pulled my arm.

'Mr Bellford,' a sweet voice cried.

I turned quickly and saw a woman who was sitting alone. She was about thirty and she had very beautiful eyes.

'How can you walk past me like that?' she said. 'Didn't you know me?'

I sat down at her table. Her hair was a beautiful redgold colour.

'Are you sure you know me?' I asked.

'No.' She smiled. 'I never really knew you.'

'Well, my name is Edward Pinkhammer,' I said, 'and I'm from Kansas.'

'So, you haven't brought Mrs Bellford with you, then,' she said, and she laughed. 'You haven't changed much in fifteen years, Elwyn.'

Her wonderful eyes looked carefully at my face.

'No,' she said quietly, 'you haven't forgotten. I told you that you could never forget.'

'I'm sorry,' I answered, 'but that's the trouble. I have forgotten. I've forgotten everything.'

She laughed. 'Did you know that I married six months after you did? It was in all the newspapers.' She was silent for a minute. Then she looked up at me again. 'Tell me one thing, Elwyn,' she said softly. 'Since that night fifteen years ago, can you touch, smell, or look at white roses—and not think of me?'

'I can only say that I don't remember any of this,' I said carefully. 'I'm very sorry.' I tried to look away from her.

She smiled and stood up to leave. Then she held out her hand to me, and I took it for a second. 'Oh yes, you remember,' she said, with a sweet, unhappy smile.

'Goodbye, Elwyn Bellford.'

That night I went to the theatre and when I returned to my hotel, a quiet man in dark clothes was waiting for me.

'Mr Pinkhammer,' he said, 'can I speak with you for a minute? There's a room here.'

I followed him into a small room. A man and a woman were there. The woman was still beautiful, but her face was unhappy and tired. I liked everything about her. The man, who was about forty, came to meet me.

'Bellford,' he said, 'I'm happy to see you again. I told you that you were working too hard. Now you can come home with us. You'll soon be all right.'

'My name', I said, 'is Edward Pinkhammer. I've never seen you before in my life.'

The woman cried out, 'Oh, Elwyn! Elwyn! I'm your wife!' She put her arms round me, but I pushed them away.

'Oh, Doctor Volney! What is the matter with him?' the woman cried.

'Go to your room,' the doctor said to her. 'He'll soon be well again.'

The woman left, and so did the man in the dark clothes. The man who was a doctor turned to me and said quietly, 'Listen. Your name is not Edward Pinkhammer.'

'I know that,' I replied, 'but a man must have a name. Why not Pinkhammer?'

'Your name', the doctor said, 'is Elwyn Bellford. You are one of the best lawyers in Denver—and that woman is your wife.'

'She's a very fine woman,' I said, after a minute. 'I love the colour of her hair.'

'She's a very good wife,' the doctor replied. 'When you left two weeks ago, she was very unhappy. Then we had a telephone call from a man who saw you in a hotel here.'

'I think I remember him,' I said. 'He called me "Bellford". Excuse me, but who are you?'

'I'm Bobby Volney. I've been your friend for twenty years, and your doctor for fifteen years. Elwyn, try to remember.'

'You say you're a doctor,' I said. 'How can I get better? Does amnesia go slowly or suddenly?'

'Sometimes slowly. Sometimes suddenly.'

'Will you help me, Doctor Volney?' I asked.

'Old friend,' he said, 'I'll do everything possible.'

'Very well. And if you're my doctor, you can't tell anybody what I say.'

'Of course not,' Doctor Volney answered.

I stood up. There were some white roses on the table. I went over to the table, picked up the roses and threw them far out of the window. Then I sat down again.

'I think it will be best, Bobby,' I said, 'to get better suddenly. I'm a little tired of it all now. Go and bring my wife Marian in now. But, oh, Doctor,' I said with a happy smile. 'Oh, my good old friend—it was wonderful!'

lawyer n. a person whose business is to advise people about laws and to represent them in court 律师

lawyer

cards n. a set of 52 cards used to play games 扑克，纸牌

cards

sit back to rest one's back in a comfortable chair 向后靠着坐

sit back

crowded adj. completely full 拥挤的

crowded

druggist n. a person who makes and sells medicines 药剂师

druggist

get tired of to have had enough of 对……感到厌烦

get tired of

exciting adj. causing great interest 令人激动的，令人兴奋的

exciting

wild adj. full of strong feelings 兴奋的

wild

alone adv. without any company 孤单地，独自地

alone

soon adv. quickly 很快地

soon

cry out to call out loudly in words 喊叫，呼喊

cry out





3． 失忆症之旅


那天早上我太太和我照常说了再见。她丢下第二杯茶，随我到了大门口。她天天如此。她从我大衣上摘下一根头发——其实那儿并没头发——而且叮嘱我当心点儿。她老是这样。我关上门，她就回去喝她的茶了。

我是律师，工作非常勤奋。我的朋友沃尔尼医生告诉过我别那么卖命。“你会生病的，”他说，“好多人工作过于勤奋，都累坏了，突然之间就忘了自己是谁。他们什么都记不起来了。这叫失忆症。你需要点儿变化，休息一下。”

“可我是 休息了呀，”我回答道，“每礼拜四晚上我太太和我打扑克牌，每个礼拜天她还给我读她妈妈每周写来的家信。”

那天早上，我走在上班的路上，想起了沃尔尼医生的话。我感觉良好，对生活很满意。

我醒来的时候，是在一列火车上，感觉睡了很久，非常不舒服。我靠坐在座位上，努力地思索着。想了很久，我对自己说：“我一定有名字的！”我看看口袋里，没有信，没有文件，没有任何写着我名字的东西。但我发现了3,000块钱。“我一定是什么人。”我想。

火车里挤满了人，都很友好。其中一个人挨着我坐下了：“嗨！我叫R.P.博尔德，博尔德父子公司的，从密苏里来。您是去纽约开那个会的，是吧？您叫什么名字？”

我不得不回答他，所以迅速地说道：“爱德华·平客哈默，从堪萨斯州的科诺伯利斯来。”

他在看报，不过每隔几分钟就抬头跟我说几句话。我从他的言谈中了解到，他是药剂师，并且认为我也是。

“这些人都是药剂师吗？”我问。

“对，都是，”他答道，“像我们一样．都是去纽约开那个年会的。”

过了一会儿，他把报纸递给我。“看看这个，”他说，“又有一个出走的人，说不记得自己是谁了。男人厌倦了工作和家庭，想过得快活点儿。他跑到某个地方去，人们找到他时，他说不知道自己是谁，什么都记不起来了。”

我接过报纸，读到了这一段：

丹佛，6月12日

埃尔温·C.贝尔福德，本城重要律师，三日前离家，至今未归。离家之前刚从银行提取大量现金。自当日起，无人再见过他。他生性安静，热爱工作，婚姻幸福。但是，贝尔福德先生工作过于勤奋，有可能患了失忆症。

“不过，有时候人是会忘掉自己是谁的，博尔德先生。”我说。

“啊，算了吧！”博尔德先生答道，“您要知道，不是这样的！这些男人不过是想给生活添点儿刺激——找别的女人什么的。找点儿不一样的东西。”

我们大约是晚上10点钟到了纽约。我乘出租车到了一家酒店，在登记簿上写下姓名“爱德华·平客哈默”。突然之间，我觉得激动又快活——我自由了。一个人连名字都没有，想干什么都成啊。

酒店前台的年轻人有点儿奇怪地看着我。我没有行李。

“我是来开‘药剂师大会’的，”我说，“我的行李丢了。”我拿出一些钱来交给他。

第二天，我买了个行李箱，还有一些衣物，开始以爱德华·平客哈默的名义生活。我并没有想法子去回忆自己到底是谁，是干什么的。

接下来在曼哈顿的一段日子真是妙极了——剧院、花园、音乐、餐馆、夜生活，还有漂亮姑娘。而且在这段时间里，我悟到了很重要的一点——要想快活，就得自由才行。

有时候我会去安静而豪华的餐馆，听听轻音乐。有时候我乘船在河上游玩，船上满是闹哄哄的带着女朋友的年轻人。再有就是会去百老汇，那里剧院众多，灯火通明。

一天下午，我刚回到酒店，一个胖胖的男人跑过来，在我面前站住了。

“您好，贝尔福德！”他大声叫道，“您在纽约干什么？贝尔福德太太跟您一起来了吗？”

“抱歉，您弄错了，先生，”我冷冷地说，“我叫平客哈默。请原谅。”

那人走开了，惊讶不已。我走到前台，那个人在我背后讲了些关于电话的事情。

“给我账单，”我对前台的人说，“半小时之内把我的行李取下来。”

那天下午我搬到了一家安静的小酒店，在第五大道上。

一天下午，在百老汇我最钟爱的一家餐馆里，当我往桌子那儿走的时候，有人拉住了我的手臂。

“贝尔福德先生。”一个甜美的声音叫道。

我迅速转过身来，看到一个女人独自坐着。她大约三十岁，长着一双美丽的眼睛。

“你怎么能就这么从我身边走过了呢？”她说，“不认识我了么？”

我在她的桌旁坐下。她的头发是美丽的红金色。

“您确信您认识我？”我问。

“不，”她微微一笑，“我从来不曾真的认识过你。”

“好吧，我叫爱德华·平客哈默，”我说，“我是堪萨斯人。”

“那么说，您没带贝尔福德太太一起来喽，”她说着笑了起来，“十五年了，你没怎么变呢，埃尔温。”

她那动人的眼睛仔细端详着我的脸。

“不，”她轻轻地说，“你没有忘。我跟你说过，你永远都忘不了的。”

“抱歉，”我答道，“不过问题在于，我已经忘了 。我什么都忘掉了。”

她笑起来。“你知道吗？你结婚六个月之后我也结婚了。报上都登了。”她沉默了一分钟，然后又抬头看着我。“告诉我一件事，埃尔温，”她柔声说，“从十五年前的那个晚上之后，你能在触摸、闻到，或是看到白玫瑰时而不想到我吗？”

“我只能说我什么都记不得了，”我谨慎地说，“非常抱歉。”我努力不去看她。

她微笑着起身要走，然后伸出一只手给我，我握了一秒钟。“哦，是的，你想起来了。”她说，笑容甜美，殊无欢意。

“再见，埃尔温·贝尔福德。”

那天晚上我去看戏，回到酒店的时候，一位温和的黑衣男人在等我。

“平客哈默先生，”他说，“我能跟您谈一分钟吗？这边有个房间。”

我随他进了一个小房间。那儿有一男一女。女的依然很美，可是愁容满面，一脸疲惫。她周身上下我都喜欢。那位男的约有四十许，起来迎接我。

“贝尔福德，”他说，“我很高兴再次见到你。我跟你说过，你勤奋得过了头。现在你可以跟我们回家了。你很快会好起来的。”

“我的名字是爱德华·平客哈默。我有生以来从没见过你。”我说道。

那位女士喊道：“哦，埃尔温！埃尔温！我是你的妻子！”她伸出双臂搂住我，但我把她的手推开了。

“哦，沃尔尼医生！他这是怎么啦？”那女士叫道。

“您回房间去吧，”医生对她说，“他很快会好起来的。”

那位女士走了，黑衣男人也走了。那位医生转过身冲着我平静地说：“听着，你的名字不是爱德华·平客哈默。”

“我知道，”我回答说，“但是人总得有个名字。为什么不能叫平客哈默？”

“你的名字，”那医生说，“是埃尔温·贝尔福德。你是丹佛最好的律师之一——而那位女士是你的妻子。”

“她是个漂亮女人，”我停了一分钟说，“我喜欢她头发的颜色。”

“她是个好妻子，”医生回答说，“你两个礼拜前离开，她难过极了。后来我们接到一个电话，是一个男人打来的，说在此地的一家酒店看到了你。”

“我想我记得他，”我说，“他叫我‘贝尔福德’。请原谅，可你是谁？”

“我是博比·沃尔尼。我是你二十年的老朋友，给你当了十五年的医生。埃尔温，试着回忆一下吧。”

“你说你是医生，”我说，“我怎么才能好起来呢？失忆症是慢慢康复，还是突然好转的？”

“有时很慢，有时突然就好了。”

“沃尔尼医生，你会帮助我吗？”我问。

“老朋友，”他说。“我会竭尽全力的。”

“很好。而且如果你是我的医生，你不能把我的话告诉任何人。”

“当然不会。”沃尔尼医生答道。

我站了起来。桌上有些白玫瑰。我走到桌前，抄起玫瑰，从窗口远远地扔出去。然后我重新坐下来。

“我想最好是，博比，”我说，“突然好起来吧。现在我对这一切有点厌倦了。现在去叫我妻子玛丽安进来吧。不过，哦，医生，”我开心地笑着说，“啊，我的老朋友，这真是太妙了！”





4Tildy's Moment


Tildy's Moment

Bogle's Family Restaurant on Eighth Avenue is not a famous place, but if you need a large cheap meal, then Bogle's is the place for you. There are twelve tables in the room, six on each side. Bogle himself sits at the desk by the door and takes the money. There are also two waitresses and a Voice. The Voice comes from the kitchen.

At the time of my story, one of the waitresses was called Aileen. She was tall, beautiful and full of life. The name of the other waitress was Tildy. She was small, fat and was not beautiful.

Most of the people who came to eat at Bogle's were men, and they loved the beautiful Aileen. They were happy to wait a long time for their meals because they could look at her. Aileen knew how to hold a conversation with twelve people and work hard at the same time. And all the men wanted to take Aileen dancing or give her presents. One gave her a gold ring and one gave her a little dog.

And poor Tildy?

In the busy, noisy restaurant men's eyes did not follow Tildy. Nobody laughed and talked with her. Nobody asked her to go dancing, and nobody gave her presents. She was a good waitress, but when she stood by the tables, the men looked round her to see Aileen.

But Tildy was happy to work with no thanks, she was happy to see the men with Aileen, she was happy to know that the men loved Aileen. She was Aileen's friend. But deep inside, she, too, wanted a man to love her.

Tildy listened to all Aileen's stories. One day Aileen came in with a black eye. A man hit her because she did not want to kiss him. 'How wonderful to have a black eye for love!' Tildy thought.

One of the men who came to Bogle's was a young man called Mr Seeders. He was a small, thin man, and he worked in an office. He knew that Aileen was not interested in him, so he sat at one of Tildy's tables, said nothing, and ate his fish.

One day when Mr Seeders came in for his meal, he drank too much beer. He finished his fish, got up, put his arm round Tildy, kissed her loudly, and walked out of the restaurant.

For a few seconds Tildy just stood there. Then Aileen said to her, 'Why, Tildy! You bad girl! I must watch you. I don't want to lose my men to you!'

Suddenly Tildy's world changed. She understood now that men could like her and want her as much as Aileen. She, Tildy, could have a love-life, too. Her eyes were bright, and her face was pink. She wanted to tell everybody her secret. When the restaurant was quiet, she went and stood by Bogle's desk.

'Do you know what a man in the restaurant did to me today?' she said. 'He put his arm round me and he kissed me!'

'Really!' Bogle answered. This was good for business. 'Next week you'll get a dollar a week more.'

And when, in the evening. the restaurant was busy again, Tildy put down the food on the tables and said quietly, 'Do you know what a man in the restaurant did to me today? He put his arm round me and kissed me!'

Some of the men in the restaurant were surprised; some of them said, 'Well done!' Men began to smile and say nice things to her. Tildy was very happy. Love was now possible in her grey life.

For two days Mr Seeders did not come again, and in that time Tildy was a different woman. She wore bright clothes, did her hair differently, and she looked taller and thinner. Now she was a real woman because someone loved her. She felt excited, and a little afraid. What would Mr Seeders do the next time he came in?

At four o'clock in the afternoon of the third day, Mr Seeders came in. There were no people at the tables, and Aileen and Tildy were working at the back of the restaurant. Mr Seeders walked up to them.

Tildy looked at him, and she could not speak. Mr Seeders' face was very red, and he looked uncomfortable.

'Miss Tildy,' he said, 'I want to say that I'm sorry for what I did to you a few days ago. It was the drink, you see. I didn't know what I was doing. I'm very sorry.'

And Mr Seeders left.

But Tildy ran into the kitchen, and she began to cry. She could not stop crying. She was no longer beautiful. No man loved her. No man wanted her. The kiss meant nothing to Mr Seeders. Tildy did not like him very much, but the kiss was important to her — and now there was nothing.

But she still had her friend, and Aileen put her arm round Tildy. Aileen did not really understand, but she said, 'Don't be unhappy, Tildy. That little Seeders has got a face like a dead potato! He's nothing. A real man never says sorry!'

waitress n. a woman who works in a restaurant and brings food to the table 女服务员

waitress

hit v. to strike with a blow 打

hit

watch v. to look at, be careful about 看着，注意

watch

secret n. fact that is not known by others 秘密

secret

business n. buying and selling 买卖，生意

business

wear v. to have something on one's body 穿着

wear

mean n. to represent or express (a meaning) 意味着

mean





4． 提尔蒂的一时风光


第八大道上的博格尔家庭餐馆不是什么有名的地方，不过如果您需要一顿份量十足的便宜饭菜，来这里就对了。店里有十二张桌子，一边六张。博格尔自己坐在门口的桌子那儿收钱。还有两个女服务员，一个“广播”，声音是从厨房传来的。

我这个故事发生的时候，那两个服务员有一个叫艾琳。她身材高挑，很漂亮，充满活力。另一个叫提尔蒂，矮个儿，胖乎乎的，不漂亮。

来博格尔餐馆吃饭的大多是男人，他们都爱漂亮的艾琳。虽然要等很久饭菜才上桌，可他们还是高高兴兴的，因为这样可以看艾琳。艾琳知道如何应付跟十二个人聊天儿，同时还能努力工作。所有的男人都想带艾琳去跳舞，或是送她礼物。有人送了她一枚金戒指，还有人送给她一只小狗。

不过可怜的提尔蒂呢？

在忙乱嘈杂的餐馆里，男人的眼睛可没跟着提尔蒂。没人冲她笑、跟她搭话。没人请她跳舞，也没人送她礼物。她做服务员是把好手，可是她站在男人桌边的时候，人家的眼睛总是绕过她去看艾琳。

不过提尔蒂听不到“谢谢”也干得挺高兴的。看到男人们和艾琳在一起，知道他们爱艾琳，她都挺高兴的。她是艾琳的朋友。不过在内心深处，她也渴望着有人来爱她。

提尔蒂听艾琳讲过所有的故事。一天，艾琳来上班的时候，有一边眼圈发黑。有个男人打了她，因为她不愿意吻他。“因为爱而挂上个黑眼圈，这多美妙啊！”提尔蒂想。

有个年轻人也常来博格尔餐馆，他叫席德斯。他个儿不高，瘦瘦的，在一家公司上班。他知道艾琳对他没意思，所以坐在了提尔蒂负责的桌子上，什么也不说，吃他的鱼。

一天，席德斯先生来吃饭的时候啤酒喝得太多了。他吃完那份鱼，站了起来，伸手搂住提尔蒂，响亮地吻了她一下，就走出了餐馆。

有那么几秒钟的时间，提尔蒂愣在那儿。然后艾琳对她说：“哎呀，提尔蒂！你这坏丫头！我该看着你的。我可不想让你抢了我的人！”

提尔蒂的世界突然间变了。她现在知道，也有男人喜欢她、想要她，就像对艾琳一样。她，提尔蒂，也会有爱情生活了。她眼睛发亮，脸颊红扑扑的。她想把自己的秘密告诉所有人。餐馆安静下来以后，她去站在了博格尔先生的桌前。

“您知道今天店里有个男人对我干了什么吗？”她说，“他搂住我，亲了我一下儿！”

“真的？”博格尔应道。这可对生意有好处。“下礼拜开始，你每个礼拜的工资加一块钱。”

到了晚上，餐馆又忙了起来。提尔蒂把饭菜送到桌上，总会悄悄地说：“您知道今天店里有个男人对我干了什么吗？他搂住我，亲了我一下儿！”

有些客人很惊讶；还有人说：“干得好！”男人们开始冲着她笑了，跟她说些甜言蜜语。提尔蒂快活极了。现在她灰色的生活里也有爱情了。

两天了，席德斯先生没有再来。不过这段时间里，提尔蒂完全换了个人。她穿上了鲜艳的衣服，换了发型，看上去也高了点儿、瘦了点儿。现在她成了真正的女人，因为有人爱她。她激动不已，还有点儿怕。席德斯先生下次来的时候，会干点儿什么呢？

第三天的下午4点钟，席德斯先生走了进来。还没人来吃饭，艾琳和提尔蒂都在餐馆后边儿干活儿。席德斯先生走到她们面前。

提尔蒂看看他，说不出话来。席德斯先生的脸红得厉害，似乎很不自在。

“提尔蒂小姐，”他说，“我想为几天前的事儿道个歉。您知道，那都是因为喝多了。我都不知道自己在干什么。很抱歉。”

然后，席德斯先生走了。

可是提尔蒂跑到厨房，哭了起来，哭得止不住。她不再漂亮了。没有男人爱她。没人想要她。那个吻对席德斯先生来说什么也不算。提尔蒂并不是那么喜欢他，但那个吻对她很重要——但现在什么都没了。

好在她还有朋友。艾琳搂着提尔蒂。艾琳不太明白究竟是怎么回事儿，可还是说：“别难过了，提尔蒂。席德斯那么矮，脸还像个干土豆！他算什么啊。真正 的男人可从不说抱歉！”





5The Memento


The Memento

The window of Miss D'Armande's room looked out onto Broadway and its theatres. But Lynette D'Armande turned her chair round and sat with her back to Broadway. She was an actress, and needed the Broadway theatres, but Broadway did not need her.

She was staying in the Hotel Thalia. Actors go there to rest for the summer and then try to get work for the autumn when the little theatres open again. Miss D'Armande's room in this hotel was a small one, but in it there were many mementoes of her days in the theatre, and there were also pictures of some of her best friends. She looked at one of these pictures now, and smiled at it.

'I'd like to know where Lee is now,' she said to herself.

She was looking at a picture of Miss Rosalie Ray, a very beautiful young woman. In the picture, Miss Ray was wearing a very short skirt and she was sitting on a swing. Every night in the theatre she went high in the air on her swing, over the heads of all the people. When she did this, all the men in the theatre got very excited and stood up. This was because, when her long beautiful legs were high in the air, her yellow garter flew off and fell down to the men below. She did this every evening, and every evening a hundred hands went up to catch the garter. She did other things. She sang, she danced, but when she got onto her swing, all the men stood up. Miss Ray did not have to try very hard to find work in the theatre.

After two years of this, Miss D'Armande remembered, Miss Ray suddenly left the theatre and went to live in the country.

And seventeen minutes after Miss D'Armande said, 'I'd like to know where Lee is now', somebody knocked on the door.

It was, of course, Rosalie Ray.

'Come in,' Miss D'Armandc called, and Miss Ray came in. Yes, it was Rosalie. She took off her hat, and Miss D'Armande could see that she looked very tired and unhappy.

'I've got the room above you,' Rosalie said. 'They told me at the desk downstairs that you were here.'

'I've been here since the end of April,' Lynnette replied. 'I begin work again next week, out in a small town. But you left the theatre three months ago, Lee. Why are you here?'

'I'll tell you, Lynn, but give me a drink first.' Miss D'Armande passed a bottle to her friend.

'Ah, that's good!' said Rosalie. 'My first drink for three months.' Yes, Lynn, I left the theatre because I was tired of the life, and because I was tired of men—well, the men who come to the theatre. You know we have to fight them off all the time. They're animals! They ask you to go out with them, they buy you a drink or two—and then they think that they can do what they want! It's terrible! And we work hard, we get very little money for it, we wait to get to the top—and it never happens. But most of all, I left because of the men.

'Well, I saved two hundred dollars and when summer came, I left the theatre and went to a little village by the sea on Long Island. I planned to stay there for the summer, and then learn how to be a better actress.'

'But there was another person who was staying in the same house—the Reverend Arthur Lyle. Yes, Lynn, a man of the church! When I saw him for the first time, I fell in love with him at once. He was a fine man and he had a wonderful voice!

'Well, it's only a short story, Lynn. A month later we decided to marry. We planned to live in a little house near the church, with lots of flowers and animals.

'No, I didn't tell him that I was an actress. I wanted to forget it and to put that life behind me.

'Oh, I was happy! I went to church, I helped the women in the village. Arthur and I went for long walks— and that little village was the best place in the world. I wanted to live there for ever...

'But one morning, the old woman who worked in the house began to talk about Arthur. She thought that he was wonderful, too. But then she told me that Arthur was in love once before, and that it ended unhappily. She said that, in his desk, he kept a memento — something which belonged to the girl. Sometimes he took it out and looked at it. But she didn't know what it was — and his desk was locked.

'That afternoon I asked him about it.'

'"Ida," he said, (of course, I used my real name there) "it was before I knew you, and I never met her. It was different from my love for you."'

'"Was she beautiful?" I asked.

'"She was very beautiful," replied Arthur.

'"Did you see her often?"

'"About ten times," he said.

'"And this memento—did she send it to you?"

'"It came to me from her," he said.

'"Why did you never meet her?" I asked.

'"She was far above me," he answered. "But, Ida, it's finished. You're not angry, are you?"

'"Why, no. I love you ten times more than before." And I did, Lynn. Can you understand that? What a beautiful love that was! He never met her, never spoke to her, but he loved her, and wanted nothing from her. He was different from other men, I thought — a really good man!

'About four o'clock that afternoon, Arthur had to go out. The door of his room was open, his desk was unlocked, and I decided to look at this memento. I opened the desk and slowly I took out the box and opened it.'

'I took one look at that memento, and then I went to my room and packed my suitcase. My wonderful Arthur, this really good man, was no different from all the other men!'

'But, Lee, what was in the box?' Miss D'Armande asked.

'It was one of my yellow garters!' cried Miss Ray.

actress n. a woman who works in a theatre, and acts, sings or dances 女演员

actress

swing n. a seat on the end of two long ropes, which moves backwards and forwards through the air 秋千

swing

garter n. something worn by women round the top of the leg (not usually seen because it is under the skirt) 吊袜带

garter

flow off to fall loosely and freely 松掉，滑下

flow off

country n. land away from town and cities 乡下，农村

country

knock n. to make a noise by striking something 敲

knock

Reverend n. a name given to a man of the church 牧师（尊称）

Reverend

fall in love with to begin to love somebody very much 爱上……

fall in love with

above prep. higher in position, importance, etc. 高于……

above

pack v. to put something into a suitcase 收拾（行李）

pack





5． 纪念品


从达曼德小姐的房间望出去，就是百老汇和那里的众多剧院。可是琳内特·达曼德把椅子转过来，背朝百老汇坐着。她是演员，需要百老汇剧院这个舞台，可是百老汇不需要她。

她暂住在塔利亚酒店里。演员们都上这儿来歇夏，然后等秋季到了，小剧院重新开张，再去设法找工作。达曼德小姐在这儿住的房间不大，可有很多她在剧院时的纪念品，还有一些好朋友的照片。她现在正微笑地看着其中的一张照片。

“真想知道现在莉在哪儿。”她自言自语道。

她看的是罗莎莉·雷小姐的照片，她是个非常漂亮的年轻女人。照片里的雷小姐穿着一条极短的裙子，坐在秋千上。在剧院里时，她每天晚上都把秋千荡得高高的，飞过所有人的头顶。她荡秋千的时候，剧院里所有的男人都兴奋不已，站起身来。这是因为她漂亮的长腿会在空中飞得高高的，黄色的吊袜带也会松掉，落在底下的男人身上。她每天晚上都这么干，每天晚上都有上百双手举着去抓那吊袜带。她还干别的，唱歌、跳舞，但是她一上秋千，所有的男人就都站起来了。雷小姐不用太费力，就能在剧院找到工作。

达曼德小姐记得，这么干了两年，雷小姐突然离开剧院，到乡下过日子去了。

就在达曼德小姐对自己说完“真想知道现在莉在哪儿”十七分钟后，有人敲门。

当然，来的正是罗莎莉·雷。

“进来。”达曼德小姐招呼着，雷小姐进来了。对，就是罗莎莉。她摘下帽子，达曼德小姐看得出，她疲惫不堪，闷闷不乐。

“我就住你楼上，”罗莎莉说，“楼下前台的人告诉我你在这儿。”

“我从四月底就在这儿，”琳内特答道，“我下礼拜开始工作，去一个小镇上。可你不是三个月前离开了么，莉？怎么又回来了？”

“我会告诉你的，琳恩，先让我喝一杯再说。”达曼德小姐递给朋友一瓶酒。

“啊，好极了！”罗莎莉说，“这是我三个月来头一次喝酒。”确实，琳恩，我是离开了剧院，因为我厌倦了这种生活，厌倦了男人——哼，那些到剧院来的男人。你知道，我们一天到晚得想法子甩开他们。他们全是禽兽！他们请你出去，给你买上一两杯酒，然后就以为可以想干嘛干嘛了！真讨厌透了！我们辛辛苦苫，挣不了几个钱．一心巴望着爬上去——哪有那回事儿！不过说到底，我离开还是因为男人。

“噢，我存了两百块，等到夏天，我就离开了剧院，到了长岛海边上的一个小村子里。我打算在那儿过完夏天，然后学学怎么做个更好的演员。”

“可是那儿还有个人，跟我住同一家旅馆——阿瑟·莱尔牧师。”是的，琳恩，他是在教堂工作的！我第一次见他，就立刻爱上了他。他很帅，声音也很动听！

“哎，这个故事不长，琳恩。一个月之后，我们决定结婚。我们打算找个小房子住，就在教堂边上，多种花，多养点儿动物。”

“不，我没告诉他我曾是演员。我希望忘掉这些，把这段生活全抛开。”

“哦，我开心极了！我去教堂，去帮助村里的女人。”阿瑟和我一起长时间地散步，那小村子是世界上最好的地方。我想在那儿一直过到老……

“可是有一天早上，在家里帮工的老太太谈起了阿瑟。她也觉得他很好，可她后来告诉我，阿瑟原来恋爱过一次，结局不好。”她说，他桌子里存着一样纪念品，是原来那姑娘的。有时候他还会拿出来看看。但她不知道那到底是什么，而且他的桌子是锁着的。

“那天下午我问起他这事。”

“‘艾达，’他说，（当然，我在那里用的是真名）‘那是我认识你之前的事儿，而且我从没跟她认识过。那和我对你的爱是不一样的。’

“‘她漂亮吗？’我问。

“‘她非常漂亮。’阿瑟回答说。

“‘你常常见她吗？’

“‘大概见过十次吧。’他说。

“‘那么这个纪念品，是她送你的么’

“‘我是从她那儿得来的。’他说。

“‘那你为什么从来没跟她认识过呢？’我问。

“‘她高高在上啊。’”他答道，‘可是，艾达，这都过去了。你没生气吧？’

“‘噢，没有。我更爱你了，是以前的十倍。’我确实是这样做的，琳恩。你明白么？那是一段多美的爱情啊！他从不认识她，从没跟她说过话，但他爱她，不图回报地爱着她。他和别的男人不一样，我觉得他是个真正的好男人！

“那天下午4点钟，阿瑟得出门办事。他房间的门开着，桌子没锁。我决定看看那个纪念品。我打开桌子的抽屉，慢慢地取出盒子，打开。

“我瞧了一眼那纪念品，就跑回我自己的房间，收拾了行李。我的好阿瑟，这个真正的好男人，和其他的男人毫无分别！”

“可是，莉，那盒子里是什么？”达曼德小姐问道。

“那是我的一条黄色吊袜带！”雷小姐哭喊着说。

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1．Read the introduction of the book. Are these sentences true? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) These stories are about famous people.

YES □／NO □

2) These stories are about people in New York.

YES □／NO □

3) New York today is very different from the New York in these stories.

YES □／NO □

4) The people in these stories have unusual jobs and strange lives.

YES □／NO □

2．Here are the five story titles, with a character from each story. Which of the five things below belongs to each story? Can you guess?

a secret in a desk / too much drink / a gold watch / a prison / a train ride

The Christmas Presents

a housewife

__________



Soapy's Choice

a tramp

__________





A Walk in Amnesia

a lawyer

__________





Tildy's Moment

a waitress

__________





The Memento

an actress

__________

ACTIVITIES

While Reading

1．Read The Christmas Presents . Choose the best question-word for each question, and then answer them.

Why/What

1) ... did Della cry?

2) ... two special things did Jim and Della have'?

3) ... did Della sell to Madame Eloise?

4) ... did Jim buy for Della'?

5) ... couldn't Jim use his present'?

6) ... couldn't Della use her present'?

2．Read Soapy's Choice . Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Rewrite the false ones with the correct information.

1) Soapy went into an expensive restaurant, but he didn't get a meal.

2) When Soapy broke a window, the policeman ran after him.

3) In the second restaurant, Soapy had a good meal.

4) The young woman called a policeman when Soapy spoke to her.

5) Soapy took a man's umbrella, and then gave it back.

6) In the church, Soapy decided to change his life.

7) The next day, Soapy got a job for three months.

3．Read A Walk in Amnesia . Who said this—Elwyn Bellford or Edward Pinkhammer—and who was he talking to?

1) 'But I do rest.'

2) 'Sometimes people do forget who they are.'

3) 'Are you sure you know me?'

4) 'I've never seen you before in my life.'

5) 'How can I get better?'

6) 'I'm a little tired of it all now.'

7) 'It was wonderful!'

4．Read Tildy's Moment , and then answer the questions.

1) What was Tildy like?

2) Why did all the men in Bogle's like to watch Aileen?

3) Why did Mr Seeders kiss Tildy?

4) How was Tildy different after the kiss?

5) What did Mr Seeders do the next time he came in?

6) Why did Tildy begin to cry?

5．Read The Memento . Here are some untrue sentences about this story. Change them into true sentences.

1) Miss Ray left the theatre because she was afraid of men.

2) Arthur knew that Ida was the actress Rosalie Ray.

3) Arthur kept a letter from his first love in his desk.

4) Arthur never saw Miss Ray in the theatre.

5) Miss Ray left Arthur because he was not like other men.

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1．In The Christmas Presents , perhaps Jim thought about his present for Della on his way home from work. Complete the text with these words. (Use one word in each gap.)

beautiful, because, belonged, chain, combs, do, door, face, feeling, fine, grey, home, important, long, love, must, no, opens, present, sell, use, when, without

Well, it's cold, ______ night again, but I'm ______ great. I'm going ______ to Della, and I've got a wonderful Christmas ______ for her. I didn't want to ______ my gold watch, ______ it was so special to me. I was only eighteen ______ my father gave it to me, and before that it ______ to my grandfather. But what could I ______? I had ______ money, and Della ______ have a present — Christmas ______ presents is terrible! I couldn't ______ the watch very often because I don't have a ______ for it. And Della is more ______ than a gold watch—I wanted to buy her something really ______, something to show how much I ______ her. I know she wants these ______, and they'll look ______ in her ______ brown hair. I can't wait to see her ______ when she ______ my present. Ah, here's my front ______ now...

2．At the end of Soapy's Choice , the policeman asks Soapy questions in the police station. Put their conversation in the correct order and write in the speakers' names. The policeman speaks first (number 6).

1) ______ 'It's a nice story, Soapy, but I don't believe it. Now go and sit over there.'

2) ______ 'Nothing! I was thinking, that's all.'

3) ______ 'Your mother! I don't think so, Soapy. I think you wanted to go into the church and look for money.'

4) ______ 'So what was your plan, Soapy? Drinking and fighting? Taking somebody's coat and selling it?'

5) ______ 'Huh! Policemen! When you're bad, they leave you alone, and when you're good, they take you away!'

6) ______ 'OK, Soapy, what were you doing outside that church?'

7) ______ 'Thinking about what?'

8) ______ 'Look, I know I've done some bad things in the past, but today I've decided to change my life and be a new man. I'm going to find some work and...'

9) ______ 'No, that's not true! That wasn't my plan.'

10) ______ 'Well, I heard the music inside the church, and I started to think about my mother, and my friends, and all the happy times...'

3．In A Walk in Amnesia , Elwyn Bellford returned to Denver, and a few days later had a talk with Dr Volney. Complete their conversation. (Use as many words as you like.)

DR VOLNEY:

Now, Elwyn, tell me why you ran away.

ELWYN:

Well, suddenly I ______.

DR VOLNEY:

But I thought you enjoyed your work?

ELWYN:

Yes, I do, but ______.

DR VOLNEY:

And tired of Marian too?

ELWYN:

NO, I still love her, but ______.

DR VOLNEY:

So what did you do in New York?

ELWYN:

I ______.

DR VOLNEY:

And are you planning to be Edward Pinkhammer again some time?

ELWYN:

No, I don't think so—but ______!

4．Mr Seeders wrote to a friend about his moment with Tildy. Complete his letter with these linking words. (You will need to use some of them more than once.)

and / because / but / so / then / when / who

Dear Jack,

I did a terrible thing today. I go to Bogle's for lunch, ______ the food is cheap ______ I love watching Aileen, ______ is one of the waitresses. She's tall and beautiful, ______ she's not interested in me, ______ I always sit at Tildy's table. Tildy's a good waitress, ______ she's small and fat.

I don't usually drink at lunch time, ______ today I had two beers. Suddenly I felt strong, and tall, and clever, ______ I went up to Tildy, put my arm round her, ______ gave her a big kiss.______ I went back to work.

Now I've got a headache, ______ I feel very stupid. What shall I say to Tildy ______ I see her again, Jack? Please help.

Yours truly,

William Seeders

5．In The Memento , perhaps Arthur Lyle wrote to Ida after she left, and Ida wrote back to him. Which sentences belong to which letter? Put the pieces of each letter together, and in the right order.

1) My dear Ida, why did you go away so suddenly?

2) Dear Mr Lyle, that 'old yellow garter' was mine.

3) which came from an actress on Broadway.

4) So I won't marry you, and don t write to me again. Ida.

5) but when I saw my garter in your desk,

6) I love you so much—please come back. Arthur.

7) and I was that actress on Broadway!

8) It's only an old yellow garter,

9) I knew that you were just like other men.

10) Was it because of that memento?

11) I thought that you were a really good man,

12) She's not important to me, but you are!

6．Here is a new illustration for one of the stories. Find the best place for it, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in the story ______.

1) Who is the woman in the picture?

2) What has she just found?

3) How does she feel at this moment, and why?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: ______________________________

7．Here are some new titles for the five stories. Which titles go with which stories? Some are better titles than others. Can you say why?

Rosalie and the Reverend

Take Me to Prison!

A Present of Love

Elwyn Runs Away

Escape to New York

Little Kiss, Big Mistake

How to Go to Prison

Men are All the Same

The Unhappy Waitress

A Moment of Change

A Poor Christmas

Remembering White Roses

A Secret in a Box

Kissing the Wrong Girl

Nothing to Give But Love

8．Here is a new ending for each story. Which do you prefer—the ending in the book or the ending here? Explain why, or write a new ending yourself.

1) Jim finds $ 20 in the street and buys his watch back. Della sells the combs and buys a new hat.

2) The policeman feels sorry for Soapy, and gives him an easy job at the police station.

3) Two months after Elwyn goes back to Denver, his wife takes all his money and runs away to Paris.

4) Now Tildy knows that men like her, she gets a job as an actress. Soon she is very famous.

5) Rosalie and Arthur forget their past lives and marry.

京权图字 01-2006-3296

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom.

'Oxford' is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

分享年 = The Year of Sharing／（英）吉尔伯特（Gilbert, H.）著；王璐译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2014.7 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6819-0

Ⅰ．分…　Ⅱ．①吉…②王…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②中篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第104901号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 王霖霖

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年7月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6819-0

书　　号：

*　　　*　　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


五百年后的世界会是什么样子呢？城市会越变越大吗？楼房、汽车、工厂会不会越来越多？噪音、烟雾、尘土会不会越来越多？那些任由动物自生自灭的绿色森林还会存在吗？

理查德的未来世界跟这些情况很不一样：那里只有自行车，没有汽车；只有村庄，没有城市。而世界上的森林只属于野生动物，那里一直是它们生活的家园。

理查德厌倦了乡村的平静生活，他已经12岁了。他想要一辆汽车，开着它风驰电掣。但是，世界上所有人都必须在12岁的时候履行“分享年”。到明天早晨，理查德就要去森林深处了。他会有一个新家庭——成员都是野生动物的家庭。他将和它们在一起生活一年，将会经受寒冷、饥饿和疲惫，但是他会学到很多——学会如何与其他动物分享这个世界。

学这一课并不简单，森林里有很多危险正等待着理查德……





THE YEAR OF SHARING


What will the world be like five hundred years from now? Will cities become bigger and bigger, with more buildings, more cars, more factories, more noise and smoke and dirt? Will there be any green forests left, where animals can live and die in freedom?

Richard's future world is very different from this. There are no cars, only bicycles. There are no cities, only villages. And the forests of the world are only for the wild animals that have always lived there.

Richard is bored with the quiet life of his village. And now he is twelve years old. He would like to have a motor-car and drive it...very fast. But, everyone in the world must do their Year of Sharing when they are twelve years old, and by tomorrow morning Richard will be somewhere deep in the forest. He will have a new family — a family of wild animals, and he will live with them for one year. He will be cold and hungry and tired, but he will learn — learn to share the world with other animals.

It is a hard lesson to learn, and there are many dangers waiting in the forest...





1A goodbye party


A goodbye party

Is somebody listening to this? If there is, hello.

There's a party going on. There are four of us doing our Year of Sharing this year — four of us who are twelve years old. The party is for all their family and friends.

I keep touching my nose. That's where they put the recorder. I can't feel it in my nose, but it's there. It will record all my words when I speak, and any other sounds which are near me. The recorder will go on working for one year.

Can you hear the sounds of the party? Music, talking, laughing, dancing. Is everybody happy?

The answer is no. Everybody has their Year of Sharing when they're twelve, and half of them don't come back. They die. This is a goodbye party.

Perhaps you think I'm afraid. Well, I'm not. I'm the only person here who has no friends or family at the party. I didn't ask any friends to come. My mother's too busy (as usual). I specially asked my father not to come — he would cry. I don't want people to see him crying.

I'm going outside. I don't want to talk to anybody.

I can't count all the bicycles by the wall here — half the village is at this party! I didn't bring my bicycle because I'm not going home after the party.

I would really like a car, not a bicycle, because I love to go fast. I've seen cars in old films, but there are no cars in the world now — no cars, no roads, no factories, no big towns, just little villages like this one. In the old days, they say, the world was a bad and dirty place and animals were dying because of all those cars and factories. Was that really true? I don't know.

Now the world is very boring. We live quietly in our villages, we don't eat meat, and we make everything ourselves with our hands.

I'm sitting outside alone. I've always been alone and that's OK. I'm clever, fast and strong and I'm not going to die in this Year of Sharing. I've always been best at everything in the village school. Now I'm going to be best among the animals. Here's the doctor.

'Hello, Richard. Alone?'

'What do you want, doctor?'

'I want to look at your nose and make sure the recorder's OK. Look up. Look down. Good. After one year we will write down every word from your recorder and make a wonderful book for you. Richard's Year of Sharing .'

'Doctor, I don't want a stupid animal like a cow or a sheep. I want something big, strong and fast, an animal which is not afraid. A clever animal like me.'

'You'll get the animal which is best for you. Does your nose hurt when I touch it here?'

'No.'

'What can you smell when I open these bottles?'

'I can smell...leaves. Milk. Blood.'

'OK, your nose is fine. Richard...life is easy when you live with people, you know. You will find it harder with animals. I don't know if you're ready. Remember, it's life or death.'

The doctor's gone. The sky is beginning to get dark. When it's full night, they'll take us — the four of us — to four different animal families. Good. I don't belong in this village. I don't think I belong with people . Not people in today's world.

In the old days people were everywhere in the world. Millions of them. They were free to go where they wanted and to do what they wanted. Now there are walls round our villages and we can't go out, and only animals are free.

Oh no!

'Let me just shake hands and say goodbye, Richard.'

'Dad, you said you wouldn't come.'

'I'm sorry your mother couldn't come. She had to meet some very important people from all over the world to talk about animals in danger. It was very important business. She wanted to come and say goodbye to you but...'

'Don't try and explain. She's always the same. OK, shake hands and go.'

Dad's gone. It's dark. There's no moon tonight. The stars are very bright.

Soon a doctor will give us something to put us into a deep sleep. When we wake up, we will be with an animal family. The doctor will give me a special smell; I'll smell like a baby in that animal family.

Isn't that terrible? Perhaps the animal family don't want another baby...but they will smell me and they'll love me. Is love just a special smell, for animals? It's all wrong. I don't like doctors.

Everybody is crying now. Can you hear them? There's no laughing or dancing any more. Here's the doctor coming. In a few minutes I'll be asleep. Goodbye, village. When I see you again, I won't be a child any more. I can't wait!

recorder n. a machine which records words or music 录音机

specially adv. for one particular purpose and only for that purpose 特意地，专门地

make sure to do something because you want to be sure that something happens 确保

stupid adj. showing a lack of good sense or good judgement; silly 愚蠢的，傻的

remember v. to do something that you have to do, and not forget about it 记住

bright adj. emitting or reflecting much light; shining 发光的，明亮的

terrible adj. making you feel afraid or shocked 可怕的；令人震惊的





1 ．告别聚会


有人在听吗？如果有，你好。

这里正在举办一个聚会。今年，我们当中有四个人要履行“分享年”——四个满12岁的人。聚会是为他们所有的家人和朋友举办的。

我不停地摸着自己的鼻子，录音机就被他们放置在鼻子里，我感觉不到它，但是它确实在那儿。它会记录下我说的所有话，以及我身边的任何声音。这个录音机会一直工作一年。

你能听到聚会的声音吗？音乐、交谈、笑声、舞蹈，每个人都快乐吗？

答案是否定的。每个人都要在12岁的时候履行自己的“分享年”。有一半的人再也不会回来，他们死了。这是个告别聚会。

也许你以为我害怕了，其实我没有。我是唯一一个没有家人和朋友出席聚会的人。我没有邀请任何朋友来。我的母亲太忙了（她一向如此）。我特别告诉父亲不要 来——他会哭的。我不想让别人看到他哭。

我要到屋外去，因为我不想和任何人讲话。

数不清的自行车靠在墙边——村里一半的人都来参加聚会了！我没有骑车来，因为聚会结束后我就不打算回家了。

我真想有辆汽车，而不是自行车，因为我喜欢速度。我在老电影里见过汽车，但是现在的世界已经没有汽车了——没有汽车、没有公路、没有工厂、没有大城市，只有像这样的小村庄。人们说，过去的世界又脏又乱，汽车和工厂导致了动物的死亡。这是真的吗？我不知道。

现在的世界单调沉闷。我们平静地生活在村庄里。我们不吃肉，我们什么都自己动手做。

我一个人坐在外面。我总是一个人，这样挺好。我聪明、灵敏而又强壮，我不会在“分享年”中死去。我在村庄的学校里做什么都是最棒的。现在我也要成为动物中最棒的。这时医生走了过来。

“你好啊，理查德，一个人吗？”

“有事吗，医生？”

“我想看一下你的鼻子，确保录音机工作正常。抬头，低头，好了！一年以后，我们会把你的录音机里录的每一个字都写下来，为你做一本精彩的书，叫做《理查德的分享年》。”

“医生，我不想要像牛或羊这样愚蠢的动物。我想要大的、强壮的、敏捷的动物，无所畏惧，像我一样聪明的动物。”

“你会得到最适合你的动物。我摸你鼻子这里时，你觉得痛吗？”

“不痛。”

“我打开这些瓶子，你都能闻到什么？”

“我能闻到……叶子、牛奶、血。”

“好，你的鼻子没问题。理查德……你知道，和人在一起生活是容易的。你会发现和动物在一起就有些困难了。我不知道你是否准备好了。记住，不是生就是死。”

医生走了，天渐渐暗了下来。当天完全黑了以后，就会有人来把我们——我们四个人——带到四个不同的动物群里去。这挺好的，我不属于这个村庄，我觉得自己不属于人类 ——现在的人类。

在过去，人们生活在世界的每个角落，数以百万计。他们想去哪儿就去哪儿，想干吗就干吗。现在村庄外都筑起了围墙，我们不能出去，只有动物 是自由的。

噢，不！

“我只是来握握手说再见的，理查德。”

“爸爸，你说好不来的。”

“对不起，你母亲来不了了。她要和一些来自世界各地的大人物会面，讨论濒危动物的问题。这是很重要的事务。她想来和你告别，但是……”

“不要帮她解释了，她总是这样。好吧，握握手，你走吧。”

爸爸走了。天也黑了，今晚没有月亮，星星却非常明亮。

很快，医生就会给我们些药物，让我们熟睡过去。醒来之后，我们就会和某群动物在一起了。医生还会给我一种特别的体味，让我闻起来就像是那个动物家族的宝宝一样。

可怕吗？也许那个动物家族并不想再要一个新宝宝……但是他们闻到我的味道就会爱上我。对动物来说，爱就是一种特殊的体味吧？这真荒谬。我不喜欢医生。

现在每个人都在哭。你能听见吗？没人欢笑舞蹈了。医生来了，几分钟后我会进入梦乡。再见吧，村庄。当我再见到你的时候就不再是孩子了。我都等不及了！





2Deer


Deer

Where am I? Where is everybody? Where's the village?

Oh!

I remember.

I've just woken up. I think it's early morning. It's still a little dark because there are trees all around me.

I don't want to sit up and look yet. When I sit up, I will see my animal family. I think I can smell them. I feel a little ill. People don't smell like that.

The trouble is, I've never been near an animal before. We don't have animals in the village, of course. We have to leave animals alone, so we always stay behind our village wall. In the old days people kept cats or dogs in the house; today you would go to prison for keeping an animal.

I'm going to sit up and look at my animal family now.

They're deer. I didn't want deer. I wanted a strong animal which can fight, not an animal which runs away like deer. Well, I'm not going to run away.

One of the deer is looking at me because I'm moving. I'm trying to stand up but it's difficult. My body is cold; I've never been so cold in my life. I was lying on the wet ground and of course they didn't give me any clothes to wear. I have to move very slowly until I get warm.

There are three deer — no, four. I didn't see the fourth at first because it's very small. I think it's a baby. It's lying beside the deer which is looking at me — I think that's its mother.

The mother is watching me carefully — she thinks I'm her baby too. Poor mother! I'm a strange baby for her to have. There's another deer which looks young — perhaps one year old. The last deer is the biggest — I think he's the father of the two young deer.

There's more light now. The deer are moving around, taking leaves from the trees and eating them. I'm hungry too. I want my breakfast.

What's for breakfast, mother? Don't answer that. I don't think I can eat your food. I know how to find fruit which is good for me and to look in the ground for roots to eat; I learnt all that in the village school. Everybody learns because everybody does the Year of Sharing.

I'll just take a walk and find some food.

Hey, get off! Stop that! What are you doing?

That was the big deer which is the father, I think. He didn't let me take a walk. He ran and pushed me back next to mother. This is terrible. Because of my smell, he thinks I'm a baby. Listen, father — I want to find something to eat!

Deer don't talk much, do they?

*　　*　　*

Sorry I haven't said anything for a long time. There's nothing to say. I'm very, very hungry. I've missed breakfast and I've missed lunch and soon I'm going to miss dinner. It's late afternoon. This deer family likes to move around a lot.

Mother and Baby and I stay together — Father makes sure of that. Brother — the other young deer — sometimes stays with us, but is often alone. Father doesn't like it if Brother follows him.

I've looked for roots in the ground but I haven't found anything. I saw a tree with good fruit on it. I tried to climb the tree but Father knocked me off with his antlers. He was angry. Deer don't climb trees!

So I am HUNGRY.

I'm not cold now. That's because we move around a lot. My arms and legs have a lot of little cuts on them. Well, I'm not wearing clothes and so I keep cutting myself on trees and other things. And my feet hurt.

I didn't think that life with animals would be like this. thought my new life would be fast, dangerous and exciting. It isn't. We just walk through the trees. The deer eat while I watch and feel hungry. Then we walk on a little more.

The deer don't talk, they don't make any sounds. Well, sometimes Mother makes a little noise to Baby (and to me because I'm a 'baby' too). And Baby answers with another little noise. But it's nothing special. Mother is saying, 'Where are you?' and Baby is answering, 'I'm here.' That's all.

When Mother asked me , 'Where are you?', I didn't answer at first. But she went on asking and asking and asking, and I felt sorry for her. I'm her baby, or she thinks I am. So then I answered, 'I'm here,' like Baby — I tried to make the same sound as Baby. I'm sure it's right because Mother asks only once now.

Father never talks to Mother. Brother sometimes makes the noise for, 'I'm here,' but nobody listens.

I like Baby. She's sweet. Yes, she's a girl deer. She's soft to touch, she's funny and she's always jumping up and down. She smells of milk.

Because I have nothing to do, I play with Baby. I try to catch her. We run round and round Mother. Then she goes under Mother and I follow, which is funny because I'm nearly as big as Mother. Mother stops moving because she doesn't want to put her foot down on one of us. When I catch Baby, she suddenly jumps out of my arms. She's like a ball—she uses her four legs to push hard and she jumps high up.

One day of this life is interesting. Not comfortable, but interesting. Two days will be a little boring, I think. After three days I'll want to scream. And I've got a year of this life...

*　　*　　*

It's evening now. It suddenly got dark. And cold. I haven't eaten a single thing all day. We swam across a river in the afternoon, so I drank a lot of water then.

These deer are really good at swimming. Baby can swim too — but Mother and Father helped Baby and me.

The deer family is going to spend the night here. All right. I would like to go and look for something to put over myself, to keep myself warm. I don't think Father will let me. Let's see.

I was right. Father didn't let me. I'll just have to be cold.

It's spring — the Year of Sharing usually begins in spring. I don't know what a winter night will be like. Perhaps I will learn to keep warm by then.

Brother is asleep. Baby is lying beside Mother. Father is walking in a slow circle around us. He's listening and smelling the wind. He'll make sure we're not in danger. I'm sitting on the ground, with my arms round my body, trying to keep warm, but I'm shaking with cold.

Baby is drinking Mother's milk.

For the first time today I feel lonely. I don't often feel lonely. I don't need people. I think it's the dark and the cold and being hungry and feeling sorry for myself and listening to Baby drinking Mother's warm milk and knowing that I can't do that.

Mother just said, 'Where are you?' to me.

I made the sound which means, 'I'm here.'

*　　*　　*

I'm falling asleep while I speak. I drank Mother's milk. I'm lying with Baby next to Mother and it's very warm. I don't feel lonely. Good night.

prison n. a place where people are kept as punishment for committing a crime 监狱

strange adj. not familiar or known to you 陌生的

root n. the part of a plant which grows under the ground 根

miss v. to fail to catch 错过

antler n. one of the two horns which grow on a male deer's head 鹿角

sweet adj. kind, gentle, and friendly 温柔的，友好的

scream v. to make a loud high cry because you are hurt, frightened, or excited 尖叫

single adj. only one 单个的，一个的

spend v. to stay somewhere or do something for a period of time 度过

mean v. to have a particular meaning 表示……的意思





2 ．鹿


我在哪儿？大家都去哪儿了？村庄呢？

噢！

我记起来了。

我刚刚醒过来，我想现在是清晨。天看起来仍然有些昏暗，因为我的周围都是树。

我还不想坐起来张望。因为我坐起来后，就会看见我的那个动物家族。我想我闻到了它们的味道，我有一点儿不舒服。人的味道和这不一样。

问题是，我以前从来没有接近过动物。我们村子里当然没有动物。我们得让动物自由生活，所以只能待在围墙后面。过去，人们能够在家里养猫养狗，但是现在，豢养动物是要坐牢的。

我现在要坐起来，看看我的动物家族了。

它们是鹿。我不想和鹿在一起。我喜欢强壮擅斗的动物，不喜欢像鹿这样动不动就逃跑的动物。反正，我 不会逃跑的。

有一只鹿正看着我，因为我在动。我试图站起来，但是非常困难。我的身体冰凉，一生中从没有这么冷过。我躺在湿漉漉的地上，他们当然没有给我衣服穿。在身体暖和起来之前，我只能慢慢地挪动。

一共有三只鹿——不，是四只。一开始我没有看到第四只，因为它太小了。我想那是只鹿崽。它躺在一只鹿的身旁，那只鹿正看着我，我想它是小鹿的妈妈。

鹿妈妈仔细地打量我——它以为我也是它的孩子。可怜的鹿妈妈！我是它陌生的孩子。另一只鹿看起来也不大——大概一岁的样子。最后一只鹿个子最大——我想它是两只小鹿的爸爸。

天亮了一些。群鹿四处走动，从树上采叶子吃。我也饿了，想吃早餐。

早上吃什么，妈妈？别回答，我想我吃不了你们的食物。我知道怎么找到对我有益的水果；我还知道怎么从地里挖树根来吃。我在村里的学校都学过。因为过“分享年”的缘故，每个人都必须学这些。

我要走一走，去找些食物。

嘿，走开！别这样！你在干吗？

是那只个子最大的鹿，我想那是鹿爸爸，它不让我走开。它跑过来把我拱回鹿妈妈身边。真可怕，因为我身上的味道，它以为我是一只鹿宝宝。听着，鹿爸爸——我想去找东西吃！

鹿不怎么讲话，是吧？

*　　*　　*

对不起，我很长时间没有讲过话了，没什么可讲的。我非常非常饿。我没有吃早餐，没有吃午餐，很快也要错过晚餐了。已经快到傍晚了。这群鹿非常喜欢四处走动。

鹿妈妈、鹿宝宝和我待在一起——鹿爸爸要确保这一点。鹿哥哥——另一只年纪不大的鹿——有时候和我们在一起，但是经常落单。鹿爸爸不喜欢鹿哥哥跟着它。

我在地里找树根，但是什么都找不到。我看到树上有新鲜的水果，我试图爬到树上，但是鹿爸爸用鹿角把我扯了下来。它生气了，因为鹿不爬树！

所以我就饿着肚子 。

我现在不冷了，那是因为我们一直在走来走去。我的手臂和腿上伤痕累累。唉，我没有穿衣服，所以碰到树或其他什么东西就会弄伤自己。我的脚也痛。

我没有想到和动物一起生活会是这样。我以为我的新生活应该是迅捷、惊险、刺激的，但情况并非如此。我们只是在林间穿行。那几只鹿美餐时，我却饿着肚子眼巴巴看着。然后我们就继续漫步。

鹿不讲话，它们不发出任何的声音。然而，有时候鹿妈妈也会对着鹿宝宝发出一点儿声响（对我也是，因为我也是“鹿宝宝”）。鹿宝宝会用另一种细弱的声音回答，没什么特别的。妈妈说：“你在哪儿？”宝宝回答：“我在这儿。”就这么简单。

当鹿妈妈问我 “你在哪儿？”时，一开始我没回答。但是它一次接一次不停地问，我挺可怜它的。我是它的宝宝，至少它是这么想的。所以后来我回答了：“我在这儿。”就像小鹿一样——我试着发出和鹿宝宝一样的声音。我肯定这声音没错，因为鹿妈妈现在只问一次了。

鹿爸爸从不和鹿妈妈讲话。鹿哥哥有时会说：“我在这儿。”但是没人理它。

我喜欢鹿宝宝，它很乖。是的，它是只小母鹿。它摸起来很柔软，它也很有趣，总是跳上跳下的，闻起来有股奶味。

我无事可做，于是和鹿宝宝一起玩。我想捉住它。我们绕着鹿妈妈跑啊跑，然后它钻到鹿妈妈肚子下面，我也跟着。这很好笑，因为我的个头和鹿妈妈差不多大。鹿妈妈停了下来，因为它不想踩到我们俩。当我捉到小鹿后，它突然从我的怀抱里跳了出去。它像一个球——用四条腿用力后蹬，然后高高跃起。

这样过一天挺有意思，虽然并不舒服，但是有意思。第二天就会有点儿无聊了，我想；三天后我会想要尖叫。但我要这样过上一年 ……

*　　*　　*

现在是傍晚了，天突然全黑了，而且很冷。这一天里我什么都没吃。我们下午游过了一条河，我当时喝了很多水。

这些鹿很会游泳。小鹿也能游——但是鹿妈妈和鹿爸爸帮助小鹿和我来着。

群鹿一家准备在这里过夜了。好啊，我要去找一些东西遮在身上保暖。我想鹿爸爸不会让我去，我要试试。

不出意料，鹿爸爸不让我走开。我只能继续挨冻。

现在是春天——“分享年”都是从春天开始的。我难以想象冬天 的晚上会是什么样，希望到时候我已经找到了保暖的办法。

鹿哥哥已经睡了。鹿宝宝睡在妈妈的身旁。鹿爸爸慢慢绕着我们转圈子。它在听风的声音和闻风的味道。它要确保我们没有危险。我坐在地上，用双臂搂住身体，尽量保持温暖，但还是冷得发抖。

小鹿在喝妈妈的奶。

今天我第一次觉得寂寞。我并不常常觉得寂寞。我不需要和人在一起。我想是因为天又黑又冷吧；我饿着肚子，为自己感到难过。我还听见小鹿在喝妈妈那温暖的鹿奶，我却不能。

鹿妈妈只是问我：“你在哪儿？”

我发出声响：“我在这儿。”

*　　*　　*

我说着说着就睡着了。我喝了鹿妈妈的奶，和小鹿一起挤在鹿妈妈的身边，非常温暖。我不觉得寂寞了。晚安。





3Wolves


Wolves

I've just lived through the worst two weeks of my life. I feel a lot better now; that's why I'm speaking again. I didn't want to say anything when there wasn't anything good to say.

It rained most of the time. When it wasn't raining, the water was still falling off the leaves of the trees. I was wet, cold, tired and hungry all the time. I was ill. My head hurt, my stomach hurt, my feet and legs hurt and I was always getting little cuts on my body. Worst of all I missed home; I wanted to be back in the village.

That's still true. I don't want to be here. Deer are not people. I said I didn't need people, but I think I was wrong. It's hard to think when you can't talk to anybody.

I'm friends with Baby and Brother. I like both of them. Baby is sweet and Brother is afraid of nothing. The two older deer are afraid of everything — afraid of birds singing, birds not singing, a cloud going over the sun, a leaf falling. When they're afraid, they jump. They're always jumping!

When Mother thinks we're in danger, she pushes me and Baby with her nose. She takes us to dark places in the forest where the trees are crowded together. We move quickly and quietly, in and out of the trees. I'm beginning to feel afraid of everything now. It's stupid. I've not seen anything to be afraid of.

I'm getting thin because I don't eat very much. I find a few wild vegetables and a little fruit every day and I drink Mother's milk before I sleep. That's all.

These deer eat all the time. They like eating from some trees, not others. Mother has to help Baby to get leaves and fruit. She tries to help me too, but deer food is not my food. I can't eat it.

Mother is unhappy because I'm not eating well. Poor Mother! I'm angry with her all day, but I sleep with her like a baby at night. It's strange. My feelings for Mother are very strong — stronger than my feelings for my real mother — both good and bad feelings.

Father doesn't come near us very often. He keeps walking around, up and down. He stands tall and looks through the trees. He puts his nose high up and smells carefully. He gets the best things to eat and he pushes the rest of the family away if they try to eat near him.

I didn't wear clothes for the first week and that was terrible because we're in the forest all the time, and couldn't stop getting cuts. So I made some clothes out of leaves. They're not very good clothes and I have to keep making new ones, but they stop most of the cuts and also keep me warm — well, not very warm, but I'm not as cold as before.

So I'm feeling better. A little warmer, a little more food in my stomach and my body doesn't hurt now.

And I'm stronger and quicker and I can hear and see better too. If you can't talk to anybody, you look and listen and smell .

Brother and I are always trying to see who can jump higher. I lose — most of the time. But I'm getting better. We both enjoy it.

There's no rain this morning, which is really wonderful. Up above there's only blue sky between the trees. Down here it's not warm, but it's not cold and wet any more.

Ow!

Something happened! Father ran up and knocked me over with his antlers. He wants me to be quiet. Now I'm speaking very softly. All the deer have stopped eating. Only Father is moving now, walking very slowly, putting one foot down carefully before moving the next foot.

It's very, very quiet. Not a sound anywhere. Why is it so quiet'? Why are there no birds singing?

Oh! Now I can see it. It's an animal coming through the trees, not quickly, not slowly. It's a wolf !

There's only one wolf. Oops! Mother just pushed me because she wants me to move. Now she's pushing Baby. The family is moving away, going deeper into the forest. Brother doesn't want to run away, and he's looking at me. Will I run away?

No, I'm not going to run. It's stupid. There are four deer and me against just one wolf. We can fight and the wolf will run away.

I'm staying. I've got a big stick and some stones and I can fight this wolf alone if I have to.

Father has gone. Mother's coming back for me — no, she isn't. She's stopped, she can't leave Baby.

Brother's coming to stand with me. Mother and Baby have gone. There's only Brother, me and the wolf now. I'm not afraid. Let's see how the wolf likes getting a stone on its nose. Take that!

I missed him! I'm good at throwing stones, but the wolf jumped to one side very fast. Now I'm throwing each stone as hard as I can. The wolf's jumping all over the place, but he's not running away. Well, I've still got my stick. Brother can use his feet to fight with. We'll be all right.

Oh no!

Two more wolves are coming, and they're coming fast . Brother, go! Get out of here! That's right.

Now I'm alone. There's only one thing to do.

*　　*　　*

I nearly died. I made a very big mistake when I decided to stand and fight. That's what a person does, not a deer. I'm a deer. I smell like a deer and so wolves think I'm a deer too.

I feel bad. I feel small , and unimportant. I'm not a person. I'm just an animal. If another animal is stronger than me, it can kill me. I didn't understand that before.

I saved Brother; I'm happy about that. The first wolf ran at me, very fast; I suddenly jumped right over him. I'm wonderful at jumping. After two weeks with deer, anybody would be wonderful.

The wolf didn't turn very quickly. I looked around for the other two wolves and saw that they weren't coming for me, they were following Brother. This was bad.

I screamed, because I wanted the wolves to think I was afraid; then they would follow me, not Brother. But when I screamed, I knew I really was afraid, and the wolves knew it too. That was terrible. All three wolves stopped and ran straight at me.

Yes, I was afraid! I dropped the stick and ran like a ...like a deer. There was a big tree in front of me and in seconds I was at the top of it.

And here I am. The wolves sat under my tree for hours with a hungry look in their eyes. They left not long ago, just before it got dark.

And this is where I'm staying. I can't find the deer in the dark. I can't lie down with Mother and drink her milk. I don't think I can sleep in a tree...but I'll try. And I'm sorry Brother nearly died because of me.

Will I see my deer family again'?

stomach n. the internal organ in which the first part of digestion occurs 胃

crowd v. (many things) to fill (the space) almost completely 挤,挨靠

vegetable n. a plant or a part of a plant used as food 蔬菜

oops int. used when a small mistake or slight accident has happened 哎哟

stick n. a thin piece of wood that has fallen or been cut off a tree 木棍

throw v. to use your hand to send something quickly through the air 扔

mistake n. incorrect thing 错误，过失

save v. to keep somebody from danger, or to stop somebody dying 搭救

straight adv. directly and immediately 直接地，径直





3 ．狼


我终于挺过了一生中最困难的两周。我现在觉得好多了，所以我又开口说话了。没有值得一提的事情时，我什么都不想说。

大部分时候都在下雨。不下雨的时候，还是有水顺着树叶流下来。我身上总是湿的，饥寒交迫，累得不行。我病了，头痛、胃痛、腿脚也痛，身上总是会有伤口。最糟的是我想家了，我想回到村庄里。

这是真的。我不想待在这里。鹿不是人。我说过我不需要和人在一起，但是我想我错了。找不到人说话的日子真是难以想象。

我是鹿宝宝和鹿哥哥的朋友，我喜欢它们俩。宝宝很乖，哥哥什么都不怕。那两只年长的鹿什么 都怕——怕鸟叫，怕鸟不叫，怕云遮住了太阳，怕树叶掉下来。它们在害怕的时候，就会跳起来。它们总是 在跳。

当鹿妈妈觉得有危险时，它会用鼻子来拱我和鹿宝宝，把我们带到枝叶繁密的树林深处。我们在树林里钻进钻出，悄悄地迅速移动。我现在也开始什么都怕。这挺傻的。我没看到有什么值得害怕的。

因为吃得不多，我瘦了。我每天找一些野菜和水果充饥，睡前喝一些鹿奶。这就是全部。

这些鹿总在不停地吃。它们喜欢吃某些树的叶子，不吃别的。鹿妈妈要帮助小鹿取到树叶和水果。它也想要帮我，但是我是不吃鹿食的，我不能吃这些。

因为我不好好吃东西，鹿妈妈不高兴了。可怜的鹿妈妈！我整天都生它的气，但是晚上却像婴儿一样挨着它睡觉。真奇怪。我对鹿妈妈的感情很强烈——超过我对自己妈妈的感情——好的坏的都有。

鹿爸爸不经常靠近我们。它不停地四处走动。它个子高，可以望穿树丛。它高高地昂着鼻子，仔细地嗅着。它总霸占最好的食物，如果家里其他成员在它附近吃东西的话，会被它赶走。

我第一周身无寸缕，非常不好过，因为整天待在森林里，总是会弄伤自己，于是我用树叶做了衣服。衣服不太结实，我得不停地做新的。但是树叶衣服却有效地防止了受伤，同时还能保暖——虽然不是特别 暖和，但是我觉得没有以前那么冷了。

所以我感觉好些了，也暖和一些了，胃里多了一些食物，身上也不疼了。

我更强壮、更敏捷了。听觉和视觉更为敏锐。如果不能跟任何人说话，你就会多看 、多听 、多闻 。

鹿哥哥和我总是比赛谁跳得更高，大部分时间都是我输。但是我在进步，我们两个都喜欢这样的比赛。

今天早上没有下雨，真是很棒，头顶的绿树蓝天相映成趣，脚下虽不暖和，但也不再寒冷潮湿了。

哎哟！

有事发生！鹿爸爸跑过来用角把我顶翻，它是要让我安静。现在我说话非常 轻。所有的鹿都停止了进食。只有鹿爸爸还在走动，走得很慢，小心翼翼地放下一只蹄子，然后才提起另一只。

现在非常非常安静，一点儿声音都没有。为什么这么安静？为什么小鸟都不叫了？

噢！现在我看见了，有一只野兽正不紧不慢地穿过树林。那是一只狼！

只有一只狼。哎哟！鹿妈妈在拱我，要我跑开。现在它又在拱鹿宝宝。鹿群跑开了，进入了树林深处。鹿哥哥不想逃跑，它正看着我。我要逃吗？

不，我不会逃。这样很蠢。我们四只鹿和一个人，对付区区一只狼。我们并肩作战，狼 会落荒而逃的。

我不走了。我准备好一根粗木棍和一些石块。要是不得不独自对付这只狼，我也能行。

鹿爸爸走了。鹿妈妈回来找我——不，它没有，它停下了，它不能丢下小鹿。

鹿哥哥来和我站到一起。鹿妈妈和小鹿离开了。现在只剩我、鹿哥哥，还有这只恶狼了。我不害怕。看看石块击中狼鼻子它会有什么反应。看招！

没有打中！我扔石块很准，但是狼敏捷地跳到一边。现在我用尽全力扔出每一块石头。狼四下里跳来跳去，但是它没有逃走。没关系，我还有棍子；鹿哥哥可以用蹄子去对付它。我们会没事的。

天哪，不！

又来了两只狼。它们动作飞快 。鹿哥哥，走！离开这儿！这就对了。

现在只剩我一个人了，只有一件事可做。

*　　*　　*

我差点儿死了。我决定留下来对付狼时，犯了个很大的错误。人才会这样做，鹿不会。我是一头鹿。我闻起来像是一头鹿，所以狼也觉得我是鹿。

我感觉很糟，觉得自己很弱小 ，微不足道。我不是人，只是动物。如果另一只动物比我强壮，它就能杀死我。我之前还不明白这个道理。

我很高兴我救了鹿哥哥。第一只狼迅速向我冲过来，我突然从它身上跳过去。我擅长跳跃。和鹿在一起待了两周后，谁都会跳得非常好。

这只狼没有立刻转过身来。我向另外两只狼望去，它们没有朝我追过来，它们正在追逐鹿哥哥。情况不妙。

我尖叫起来，因为我想让狼以为我害怕，然后它们就会追我，而不去追鹿哥哥。但是我尖叫的时候，我知道自己是真的害怕了，狼也知道。太可怕了，三只狼都停了下来，径直向我冲过来。

是，我害怕了！我扔下木棍就跑……就像一只鹿。我前面有棵大树，我几秒钟就爬到了树顶。

我待在这儿。这三只狼在树下守了我几个小时，眼里充满了饥饿的神情。它们刚刚离开，天就黑了。

我只能待在这儿了。在黑暗里我不可能找到鹿群。我不能靠着鹿妈妈睡觉，喝不了它的奶。我想在树上也不可能睡得着……但是我会试试。我很难过，鹿哥哥因为我差一点儿死掉。

我还会再见到那群鹿吗？





4Killing a wolf


Killing a wolf

It's morning and I'm still up in the tree. I didn't sleep all night. I'm hungry, tired, cold and angry. I'm going to climb down the tree and look for some food.

*　　*　　*

That's better. I can't think when I'm hungry.

When I remember how I ran away from those wolves, I feel angry and my face gets hot. Why did I run away? I wasn't afraid!

I screamed and ran away to save Brother, of course. That's why. I don't want to go back to the deer family. If I'm not living with deer, I don't have to run away from anything. I can live alone for my Year of Sharing. I can find food, water, places to sleep and leaves to make clothes with. I don't need the deer; life is more difficult with them.

I have decided not to follow the deer and I feel happier now. I won't get lonely or bored; I'm better alone.

If a wolf comes, I'll kill it. I can fight wolves if I have sticks and stones. When I find the dead body of an animal, I will cut it up and use it to make something for killing wolves — a catapult which will shoot stones.

I feel much better.

*　　*　　*

Things have changed again. I'm back with the deer.

I was sitting on the ground, cutting a stick with a stone, when I heard Mother calling. She was far away. I only heard her because it was very quiet all around.

She was calling, 'Where are you? Where are you?' and I knew she was calling me .

It was terrible. I began crying. She's only a deer. I smell like a baby deer to her, but I'm not really.

I answered, 'I'm here!'

Mother heard me and ran to me. She was calling all the time. She came through the trees with Baby behind her and I stood up, still crying, and I...

I don't want to talk about it any more. Sometimes I don't understand myself. I never put my arms round my real mother like that, and Mother is only a deer .

What could I do? I walked with Mother and Baby through the forest for a long time until we found Father and Brother. Father stopped eating and hit Mother with his antlers. He was angry; he wanted her to be near him all the time.

When Father came up to me, I thought he would hit me too, but he didn't. He smelt me carefully, then touched me softly with his head. To him, I'm just a baby.

Brother jumped straight up and down; he was so happy to see me again. I was surprised how happy I was to see him too.

In the last few days we have walked and walked. When the others want to stop and eat, Father keeps us moving. We have swum across rivers, pushed through trees, run across open ground and moved back into trees again. I know why — we all know.

There's a wolf, or wolves, following us. It calls — a long, hungry howling, often at night. It's following our smell. That's why Father tries to go through water as often as possible — smells are lost in water.

I'm busy with my special answer to this danger — I'm making weapons. I break up stones into little pieces. Some pieces of stone are really sharp and will cut like a knife. I've put them on long sticks to make spears.

I found a dead animal and cut off its skin, then I cut the skin into long, thin pieces. Now I have a good catapult; I can kill wolves.

Brother's teaching Baby to jump as high as she can. That's his job. Mother teaches Baby about eating and smelling things and cleaning herself. Father doesn't have time to teach Baby. He's always walking round. He's smelling, listening, watching the trees, waiting for something bad to happen. He always knows the best place to go next, because he never stops thinking about it.

Brother, Baby and I often jump together, moving in sudden, high jumps across the ground. I'm beginning to understand why deer jump so much. A jump catches the eye of a wolf. When a wolf runs after a deer, another deer will jump and the wolf will turn to look at it. Then a third deer will jump. The wolf turns again. Each jump takes the deer away from the wolf and the wolf can't decide which deer to follow. It's clever.

Yesterday something bad happened. Baby did a good, high jump but when she came down, she gave a little scream. She tried to walk and screamed again, a little, high scream. Mother ran to her and Father stood not far away and watched.

I couldn't see what was wrong at first; Mother didn't want anyone to come near. In the end I lay down next to Baby and saw what it was — a stick from a tree was deep inside Baby's leg and Mother's teeth couldn't pull it out. Mother didn't let me touch it.

Baby could only walk on three legs and she got tired very quickly. Father tried to move on again, away from the wolf, but Mother wanted to stay with Baby. Father pushed Mother and she followed him...but then went back to Baby. Father went back and pushed Mother again.

In the end Father took Baby to a dark place where she could hide under leaves. It was near a river and the ground was wet. That would hide Baby's smell from the wolf.

Then Father pushed us all away. But when we left, we could hear Baby calling after us. She didn't understand. Her calls said, 'I'm here! I'm here!'

Father didn't let Mother go back. We walked on. The howl of a wolf came through the trees from far away. I thought of a wolf finding Baby.

I just couldn't leave her.

I stopped. Mother called me but Father was pushing her to go on. I stayed still and they went into the trees and I couldn't see them any more. There are no goodbyes with deer.

I ran back to Baby and she stopped calling. She was happy.

I put my weapons on the ground — my catapult and spears. When I touched Baby's leg, she didn't like it; it hurt a lot. She didn't let me touch it again.

So I lay down heavily on top of her. I held the stick in her leg and moved it slowly and carefully. I pulled and turned it until it came out, all of it. Then I went and carried water in my hands from the river to wash the wound on her leg. That was all I could do.

I brought leaves for Baby to eat, and water for her to drink. When it got dark, I lay down with her and we slept, keeping warm together.

I've just looked at her leg and I think it's getting better. But she can't walk on it yet. We have to stay here for a few days. Then we will follow the deer family. I think I can find them. I can smell where they have been, I can see where they have walked and I understand how Father thinks.

With luck I can find them.

*　　*　　*

The wolves found us two days later. It was evening, just before dark. Two wolves walked out of the trees and saw me carrying food to Baby. They were thin and hungry wolves. I don't think they have eaten for a long time.

My weapons were under the leaves with Baby. I dropped the food and ran and quickly got a catapult and a few stones. Of course, the wolves thought I was running away and they came to get me.

I turned, holding the catapult, and looked at them, and they stopped in surprise. Why wasn't I running away?

I felt cold inside, but not afraid. 'Which one of you shall I kill?' I asked them. 'Which one of you will die first?'

The wolves heard my cold voice. They knew I was dangerous, but they were hungry. They came slowly and they didn't make a sound. I shot a stone from the catapult and it hit one wolf on the eye. The wolf screamed. I followed that with more stones until a very big one cut its head open. The wolf fell over on its side and didn't move.

The other wolf jumped, turned and ran back into the trees. I looked at the dead wolf on the ground and felt sorry.

From the trees came a long, lonely howl.

I waited until it was dark and then Baby and I began walking. Baby walked for a while and then rested. I couldn't follow the deer family in the dark because I couldn't see anything and the smells were cold. But I thought I knew where Father would go.

There was a moon. I decided we had to walk all night because the other wolf was still out there somewhere.

Baby's leg was doing well; I was happy about that. An hour later, we were far from the dark hiding place under the leaves. The wolf wouldn't find us now.

There was a howl in the night. Then another howl, and another. Three, four, five, six howls — from different sides. The wolves were far away, but there were lots of them. Too many.

And so I learnt something new. Wolves have families too — big families. If you kill one wolf, the family wants to find the killer. We were in trouble.

catapult n. a stick like the letter 'Y', with a piece of elastic, which you can use for shooting stones 弹弓

understand v. to know how or why something happens, or what effect or influence something has 理解，明白

howl v. to make a long loud sound 嚎叫

weapon n. something which can hurt or kill people 武器

spear n. a weapon made from a long stick with a sharp point at the end 矛

skin n. the outside covering of the body of a person or animal 皮（肤）

hide v. to put something in a place so that no one can find or see it 隐藏

drop v. to fall or allow to fall; to let go （使）掉下

luck n. an in fluence that seems to make things, especially good things, happen to people for no particular reason 好运

killer n. someone who kills another person 凶手





4 ．反击


早晨了，我还在树上。我彻夜未眠，饥寒交迫，又累又气。我要爬下树去找些吃的。

*　　*　　*

这样好些，我饿的时候没法思考。

每当我想起自己怎样从狼口下狼狈逃生，就禁不住生自己的气，面红耳赤。我为什么要逃？我不害怕啊！

我尖叫逃跑是为了救鹿哥哥，当然这就是原因。我不想回去找鹿群。如果我不和它们在一起的话，我就不会逃避任何事。我可以独自一个人生活，度过我的“分享年”。我可以找到食物、水、睡觉的地方和用来做衣服的树叶。我不需要和鹿群在一起，和它们一起生活更麻烦。

决定不跟着鹿群之后，我感觉宽慰了些。我不会觉得孤独和无聊，一个人更好。

如果狼来了，我就杀死它。我可以用木棍和石块对付狼。如果找到动物的尸体，我会把它剖开，用它做成杀狼的武器——能够弹射石块的弹弓。

我觉得好多 了。

*　　*　　*

事情又有了变化，我回到了鹿群。

我坐在地上，用石块削一根木棍，这时我听到了鹿妈妈的召唤。它在很远的地方。因为四周非常安静，我才听到了它的声音。

它在叫：“你在哪儿？你在哪儿？”我知道它是在呼唤我 。

真糟糕，我居然哭起来。它只是一头鹿而已。对它来说，我闻上去像鹿宝宝，但其实我不是。

我回应：“我在这儿！”

鹿妈妈听到了我的回答，向我跑来，它一直在叫，鹿宝宝跟在它身后一起穿过树林。我站了起来，仍然在哭，我……

我不想再提它了，有时我也不明白自己。我从来没有像这样伸出双臂拥抱我真正的妈妈，而这个妈妈只不过是一头鹿 。

我能怎么办？我跟着鹿妈妈和鹿宝宝穿过森林走了，很久才找到鹿爸爸和鹿哥哥。鹿爸爸停止吃东西，用鹿角撞鹿妈妈。它生气了，它要鹿妈妈随时跟在它身边。

鹿爸爸又走到我跟前，我以为它也要打我了，但是它没有。它仔细地闻我的味道，然后用头轻轻地碰碰我。对它来讲，我只是个鹿宝宝。

鹿哥哥跳上跳下，它非常高兴再见到我。我吃惊地发现，见到它 我也很高兴。

在过去的几天里，我们东奔西走。当有成员想停下来吃东西时，鹿爸爸却让我们继续赶路。我们游过河流，穿过树林，奔过旷野，然后又回到树林。我知道这样赶路的原因——我们都知道。

我们的后面跟着一只狼，或者是一群狼。它常常在夜晚嚎叫——那是饥饿的长嚎。它追随着我们的气味。所以鹿爸爸尽量领我们走水路——因为在水里闻不到我们的气味。

我自己也在忙着为应对这个危险做特殊的准备——我在制作武器。我把石头砸成小碎块，有些小石块十分锋利，能像小刀一样切割。我把石块固定在长棍子上做成矛。

我找到了一具动物的尸体，把它的皮扒了下来，然后割成细长条。现在我有弹弓了，我可以杀死狼。

鹿哥哥在教鹿宝宝怎么跳得更高，那是它的工作。鹿妈妈教它吃东西、闻东西和保持清洁。鹿爸爸没有时间来教鹿宝宝。它总在四下走动，一边闻，一边听，观察树的动静，时刻警惕着危险的发生。它总是知道接下来到哪里最安全，因为它不停地思考着这个问题。

鹿哥哥、鹿宝宝和我经常一起跳跃，突然跑动、高高跳起、跃过地面。我开始了解为什么鹿总是在跳跃，跳跃能够吸引狼的注意。当狼紧追一只鹿时，另一只鹿跳起来，狼会转身去看。然后第三只鹿又跃起，狼又转过去看。每一跳都使另外的鹿离开狼更远，让狼不知道去追哪只鹿。这很聪明。

昨天出了点儿问题。鹿宝宝高高跃起，落到地上时轻轻尖叫了一声。它试着走步，然后又叫了一声，这一次叫声有些高。鹿妈妈跑到它跟前，鹿爸爸站在不远处观察。

一开始我不知道怎么了。鹿妈妈不让任何人接近。最后我躺在鹿宝宝的身边，才看清怎么回事——一根树枝深深地插进了鹿宝宝的腿，鹿妈妈无法用牙齿把它拔出来。鹿妈妈不准我碰树枝。

现在鹿宝宝只能靠三条腿走路，很快就累了。鹿爸爸想要继续赶路，把狼甩掉。但是鹿妈妈想留下来照顾鹿宝宝。鹿爸爸拱着鹿妈妈走，它跟上来……然后又回到鹿宝宝身边。鹿爸爸又回来拱鹿妈妈。

最后鹿爸爸把鹿宝宝带到了暗处，鹿宝宝可以用树叶挡住自己。这里离河很近，地面潮湿。这样狼就闻不到小鹿的味道。

然后鹿爸爸把我们都赶走了。但是离开的时候，我们听到鹿宝宝在后面叫。它不明白怎么了，它叫着：“我在这儿！我在这儿！”

鹿爸爸不让鹿妈妈回去。我们继续前进。从树林深处远远传来狼嚎。我想狼发现了鹿宝宝。

我不能丢下它。

我停下来。鹿妈妈叫我走，但是鹿爸爸催它继续走。我待住不动，它们走进了树林，再也看不见了。鹿不会说再见。

我跑回到小鹿身边，它停止了呼喊，充满了喜悦。

我把武器放在地上——我的弹弓和矛。我碰了碰鹿宝宝的腿，它不乐意了，因为那很痛。它不让我再碰。

所以我死死地压在小鹿身上，握住它腿上的树枝，慢慢地小心移动着它。我边拔树枝边转动它，直到完全拔出。然后我去河边用手捧些水来清洗它腿上的伤口。我只能做这些。

我拿树叶来给小鹿吃，又找来水给它喝。天黑后，我和它依偎着入睡，互相取暖。

我查看了小鹿的伤腿，我想它正在好转。但是小鹿仍然不能用那条腿走路。我们还要在这里待上几天，然后就可以去追上鹿群。我想我能找到它们，我能闻出它们到过的地方，能看出它们曾经经过哪里，而且我知道鹿爸爸的想法。

要是运气好，我能找到它们。

*　　*　　*

两天后，狼群找到了我们。那是在傍晚，天快要黑的时候。两只狼走出树林，看见我给小鹿拿吃的东西。这两只狼又瘦又饿。我想它们很长时间没有吃过东西了。

我的武器放在鹿宝宝那儿的树叶下面，我扔掉吃的就跑，飞快地拿起一个弹弓和几块石头。当然，这两只狼以为我要逃走，都朝我跑来。

我转过身，举起弹弓，盯着它们。它们愣住了。为什么我不逃呢？

我体内发凉，但毫不畏惧。“我杀你们中的哪一个？”我问它们，“谁想先死？”

那两只狼听到了我冰冷的声音。它们知道我不容易对付，但是它们饥肠辘辘。它们悄无声息地慢慢逼近。我用弹弓射出一个石块，打中了一只狼的眼睛，那狼尖叫起来。我继续射出石块，直到一块大石头把它的脑袋砸开了花。这只狼翻身倒下，再也不动了。

另一只狼跳起来，转过身，跑回了树林里。看着地上的死狼，我觉得难过。

树林中传来了孤独的长嚎。

等到天黑，鹿宝宝和我就动身了。小鹿走一阵，歇一阵。在夜里我没法跟踪鹿群，因为我什么也看不见，气味也淡了。但是我想自己知道鹿爸爸要去哪里。

今夜有月亮。我决定整夜行进，因为另一只狼还在附近。

鹿宝宝的腿好了许多，我很高兴。一个小时后，我们已经远远离开了那个树叶下的藏身之处。现在那只狼已经找不到我们了。

晚上，一声狼嚎传来，然后有一声回应，然后又是一声，三声、四声、五声、六声——从各个方向传来。狼群离得还远，但是有很多很多只狼，太多了。

所以我又学到了新东西。狼也有家族——大家族。如果杀死了其中一只，狼群就要找出凶手。我们有麻烦了。





5The wolves are coming


The wolves are coming

I don't like danger, but if you live through it, you feel good.

Just now we're resting on the other side of a large lake. The wolves sound very far away and I think we're OK. I've done everything possible to make sure they can't follow us.

When I heard all those wolves howling in the dark, I touched Baby and said, 'Stand very quietly and listen.'

Of course Baby didn't understand, but she stopped and didn't move. I was listening for water — a river or anything. I couldn't hear water, just the wind in the trees and a wolf singing to the moon.

So I tried smelling for water. My nose is wonderful at smelling now and, yes, I could smell something wet. When I turned round, I knew where the wet smell was coming from.

'We'll be fine, Baby,' I said. I put my hand on her head. 'But we can't stop any more until we get to the water. Can you run with that leg?'

Baby's leg was hurting, but she ran when I ran. She was afraid of losing me. I was all she had.

The wolves howled, not all the time but sometimes. I didn't know how near they were. Each howl went on for nearly a minute. Sometimes I didn't know if they were behind or in front of us.

I saw light through the trees. I hurried and Baby came after me. Soon we came to open ground, and there it was — moonlight on water! Not a river, but a big lake.

'It's a long swim, Baby,' I told her, 'but if we stay here, we'll die.'

Baby wasn't afraid of water. She followed me in and swam easily beside me. It was easier for her to swim than run with her bad leg.

How far was it to the other side? I don't know, but it took us a long, long time. It was more difficult for me than Baby in the end. I'm a walking, climbing animal; deer are running, jumping, swimming animals. My arms and legs hurt, my body felt heavy and I swam more and more slowly. But Baby was always there beside me, touching me all the time, her legs moving quickly in the water. She was warm, while I was cold, and that helped me.

The moon went behind clouds and we swam in the dark. I was happy about that because I was afraid the wolves would see us. When my feet hit stones underneath me, I knew the water wasn't deep any more. I stood up. A minute later Baby was walking too. We walked out of the water. My legs couldn't hold me up. I half fell and lay on the ground and felt very happy. Baby lay beside me, wet but warm. I slept for a little while.

I've just woken up. We have to begin moving soon. It's still night, but we must be far away from here by morning. Some of the ground is soft. Soft ground is dangerous because the wolves can see where we have gone. We must go on the hard, stony places.

*　　*　　*

It's wonderful! We're back with Mother, Father and Brother. I wasn't really sure that I could find them.

When the deer family left us three days ago, I saw some hills to the north. Father always hides in the trees when there's danger, and up there on the hills there are a lot of big, dark trees. Just right for Father.

I had good luck. When we got to the hills, we didn't have to look very far. I could hear the deer eating before I smelt them.

Baby went in a funny, jumping run up to Mother. She kept one foot off the ground; it was still hurting. Mother and Baby touched heads and made noises. Father came and smelt me while Brother watched. Father doesn't usually get too near anyone in the family, but he stood nearly touching me. I think he was saying thank you, and my eyes were wet.

I spoke to Father. 'We must go deeper into the trees. There are wolves behind us trying to follow us.'

Father didn't like me talking. He moved away and began eating again. Then Brother came. He wanted to play.

'I'm too tired,' I explained. 'I want to get deeper into the trees, then I want to sleep.'

Nobody did what I wanted. They didn't understand about the wolves, and the leaves were sweet. Baby drank Mother's milk and Brother and Father went on eating.

So I slept where I was.

It's afternoon now. We're still here. It's warm and bright and there's a blue sky. I'm not afraid any more. I was just tired. The wolves have lost us and we're OK.

*　　*　　*

I was wrong. The wolves followed us. I could hear many wolves howling. They were far away, but coming.

I was angry with myself. How did the wolves find us? Baby and I tried so hard — we ran, we swam across water, and we stayed away from soft ground, but it didn't help.

Then I saw something which explained it. There were flies walking around a drop of blood on the ground. The cut on Baby's leg was open again, and the wolves were following the strong smell of blood.

It was too late to go deep into the trees now. The wolves would find us. I looked at the four deer — my family — and I knew I couldn't let them die. There was an answer. It was dangerous, but I had to do it.

First I cleaned Baby's cut again and put leaves on it to stop the blood. Then I cut myself — a small cut on the leg, with a sharp stone.

'You go up there,' I said to Father, 'up into the trees and I'll go along open ground, over there. The wolves will follow my blood. If the wolves don't catch me, I'll wait for a few days and then I'll find you again. Do you understand?'

Of course he didn't, but he understood the danger that was coming. Brother wanted to come with me. This time Father got angry with him and pushed him up the hill. No goodbyes, of course.

I began running down the hill where there were no trees. I looked back and I couldn't see the deer.

I was stronger after my sleep and I ran fast. I knew where I was going. There was a high, rocky hill about two miles away — I could climb it, but wolves couldn't. But could I get there before the wolves found me?

I ran and didn't look back. After ten minutes I wanted to stop and rest, but then I heard the howls. I looked back and the wolves were running behind me.

So I didn't rest. I ran and they ran. I was afraid, really afraid. I couldn't feel my legs. 'Don't fall, keep going,' I said to myself.

I ran to save my life. When I came to the rocks, I didn't stop; I climbed up faster than a wild cat. One wolf hit another wolf just below me and fell over. Their angry howls rang in my ears. I went up and up until I came to a place where I could rest. I sat with my back to the rock and looked down. Wolves everywhere...

I'm here and they can't get me now. When I've rested, I'll climb up to the top and I'll be OK.

No, wait — perhaps I'll stay here until morning. I need to sleep. I'll feel better after a good sleep. I don't feel very well. I can't remember the last time I ate something. Listen to those wolves! They're hungry too, of course. I'm an animal just like them.

RICHARD'S FATHER SPEAKS:

What happened? We don't know.

When Richard's Year of Sharing finished, I went to bring him home. I followed the radio call of his recorder. I found the recorder at the bottom of the hill where he tried to escape from the wolves. The recorder was there, but not Richard.

Did he fall while he was sleeping? Did the accident happen next morning while he was climbing to the top? I don't know.

I am very unhappy. The village says we can now have another child. But I don't want one. I cannot say more.

RICHARD'S MOTHER SPEAKS:

Richard was a difficult boy. He was angry and he wanted to bring back the old world, the world where people took everything and animals had nothing. But in the end he learnt to share. He learnt that people are animals too, and that the world belongs not just to people, but to all animals. It is a hard lesson to learn, but we must all learn it. Now my son is dead. But the people of this village, and their children, and their children's children, will never forget him.

possible adj. that can be done 可能的

underneath prep. Below 在……下面

hold up support, sustain 支撑，维持

stony adj. full of stones 多石头的

funny adj. amusing, comical 有趣的，滑稽的

explain v. to tell someone something in a way that helps them understand it better 解释

rocky adj. full of rocks 多岩石的

escape v. to get away from a place where you are in danger 逃走，逃脱





5 ．狼群来了


我不喜欢危险，但如果能够绝处逢生，感觉会很棒。

我们在一个大湖的另一边休息。狼的嚎叫声听起来很远，我想我们是安全的。我已经竭尽所能来确保狼群追不到我们。

当在黑暗中听着此起彼伏的狼嚎时，我碰了碰鹿宝宝说：“安安静静地待着，仔细听。”

鹿宝宝当然听不懂我的话，但是它停住不动了。我想听到水声——一条河或是其他什么。我没有听见，只听到风穿过树丛和狼对月嚎叫的声音。

我又试着嗅 水的味道。现在我鼻子的嗅觉很灵。是的，我闻到了潮湿的味道。当我一转身，我知道了那味道是从哪儿来的。

“我们会没事的，宝宝。”我把手放在它的头上。“但是找到水之前我们不能停下来。你能用那条腿跑吗？”

鹿宝宝的腿还在疼，但是我在跑的时候，它也跑起来。它怕失去我，我是它唯一的依靠。

群狼还在时不时地嚎叫着。我不能确定它们离得有多近。每一声嚎叫都持续将近一分钟之久。有时我分不清狼群是在后面还是在前面。

我看到有光线穿透树林。我加快速度，鹿宝宝紧紧地跟着。很快我们到了空地，就是这儿——月光倒映在水面上！不是河，而是一个大湖。

“要游很长距离呢，宝宝。”我对它说，“但如果待在这里，我们会没命的。”

鹿宝宝不怕水。它跟着我走进湖水，在我身边轻松地游着。对它来讲，用伤腿游泳比跑路容易。

到对岸有多远？我不知道，但这花了我们很长很长时间。最后我反而比鹿宝宝更觉困难。我是擅长行走和攀缘的动物，而鹿则擅长奔跑、跳跃和游泳。我的胳膊和腿脚很疼，身体发沉，游得越来越慢。但是鹿宝宝一直在我旁边，不停地碰碰我，它的腿在水里飞快划动。我有些冷，但是鹿宝宝的身体很暖和，让我好受了许多。

月亮隐入云朵背后，我们在黑暗中继续往前游。这让我觉得欣慰，因为我怕狼群会看到我们。我的脚碰到了身下的石头时，我知道水已经没那么深了。我站了起来。很快鹿宝宝也走起来了。我们走出湖面。我的双腿已经撑不住了。我倒下躺在地上，心里非常快慰。潮湿而温暖的鹿宝宝靠着我卧下，我睡了一小会儿。

我刚醒过来，我们马上又要开始赶路。夜晚还没有过去，但是在早上之前，我们必须要远离这里。这儿有的地面很软，松软的地面很危险，因为狼群会看到我们曾从哪儿经过。我们得在坚硬的石头地上行进。

*　　*　　*

真是太好了！我们又回到了鹿妈妈、鹿爸爸和鹿哥哥的身边。我原来并不敢确定能不能找到它们。

三天前，当鹿群离开我们的时候，我看到北面有一些小山。有危险时鹿爸爸总是躲进树林；而那边山上有很多高高大大、黑黝黝的树木，对鹿爸爸正合适。

我运气不错。我们到了山上没有找太远。在闻到气味之前，我就听到了鹿群吃东西的声音。

鹿宝宝滑稽地跳到鹿妈妈身边，一只脚没有着地，那儿还疼呢。鹿妈妈和鹿宝宝碰碰头，发出声响。鹿爸爸走过来闻闻我，鹿哥哥在一边看着。鹿爸爸一般不和家里人走得太近，但是它这时挨着我站着。我想它是在说谢谢，我的眼睛湿润了。

我对鹿爸爸说：“我们必须走进树林深处，后面还有狼在追我们。”

鹿爸爸不喜欢我讲话。它走开了，又开始吃东西。鹿哥哥走过来，想和我玩。

“我太累了。”我解释道，“我想到林子里去，然后睡觉。”

没有谁按我想的去做。它们都不懂得狼的习性，而树叶是如此美味。鹿宝宝在喝妈妈的奶，鹿哥哥和鹿爸爸还在吃。

所以我就地睡下了。

现在已经是下午。我们还在这儿。天气温暖、睛朗，天色湛蓝。我不再害怕了，我只是累了。狼群没有找到我们，我们安全了。

*　　*　　*

我错了，狼群跟了上来。我可以听见很多的狼在嚎叫。它们还在远处，但正在逼近。

我生自己的气。狼群怎么会找到我们呢？小鹿和我已经尽全力了——我们逃跑，游过湖水，绕过松软的土地，却都没用。

然后我找到了原因。一群苍蝇围着地上的一滴血乱转。鹿宝宝腿上的伤口又裂开了。狼群沿着强烈的血腥味在追踪我们。

现在想要进入树林深处已经太迟了。狼群会找到我们。我看着四只鹿——那是我的家人——我知道我不能让它们死。有一个办法，很危险，但我不得不去做。

我先清洗了鹿宝宝的伤口，把树叶敷在上面止住血。然后我割伤了自己——用锋利的石块在腿上划了一个小口子。

“你到那儿去。”我对鹿爸爸说，“到树林里去，我去另一边的空地。狼群会跟着我的血来找我。如果狼群没有追到我，我会等上几天，然后再来找你们。明白吗？”

它当然不明白，但是它明白正在逼近的危险。鹿哥哥想和我一起走。但这次鹿爸爸对它发了脾气，把它赶上了山。当然了，没有道别。

我开始跑下山，到了没有树的地方。我回头看去，已经看不到鹿群了。

睡过之后，我更有劲儿了，我跑得很快。我知道要去哪儿。两英里外有一座高耸的石头山——我可以爬上去，但是狼不行。但在狼群找到我之前，我能到达那里吗？

我头也不回地跑。十分钟后，我想停下来歇一歇，可这时我听到了狼嚎。我转过头一看，群狼在我的身后追来。

于是我没有休息。我跑，它们也跑。我很害怕，真的害怕。我已经感觉不到我的双腿了。“不要倒下，继续跑。”我告诉自己。

我要逃命，当跑到石头山时，我没有停下；我爬了上去，比野猫还快。就在我的下面，一只狼撞到了另外一只身上，摔了下去。它们愤怒的嚎叫响彻我的耳际，我越爬越高，直到一个可以休息的地方。我坐下来背靠岩石住下看。群狼遍地……

我在这里，它们现在捉不到我。等我休息好了，我就会继续爬到山顶，那样我就安全了。

不，等等——也许我要在这里一直待到早上。我需要睡觉。酣睡之后，我会觉得更有力气。我觉得不太舒服。我记不起上一次吃东西是什么时候。听听 这些狼嚎！它们当然也饿了。我和他们一样，也是动物。

理查德爸爸的话：

到底发生了什么？我们不知道。

当理查德的“分享年”结束后，我去接他回家。我跟着他的录音机的无线电信号去找。我在山脚下发现了录音机，在那儿他曾试图摆脱狼群。录音机还在，但理查德不在了。

他是睡着的时候跌下山的吗，还是第二天早上爬向山顶时出的意外？我不知道。

我非常难过。村里人说我们可以再生一个孩子，但是我不想，我讲不下去了。

理查德妈妈的话：

理查德是个倔强的孩子。他心中充满愤怒，想找回过去的世界。在过去的世界里，人类拥有一切，而动物一无所有。但是最后，他学会了如何“分享”，懂得了人也是动物的一分子，而世界不仅仅属于人类，也属于所有的动物。学习这一课并不容易，但却是我们所有人的必修课。现在我的儿子死了，而村里所有的人，还有他们的孩子们，他们孩子的孩子们，将永远铭记他。





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1．Read the story introduction on the first page of the book. How much do you know now about the story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Richard lives in the 1990s.

YES □／NO □

2) Richard lives in a big city.

YES □／NO □

3) Richard wants a fast car.

YES □／NO □

4) Richard is twelve years old.

YES □／NO □

5) Richard is going to live with animals.

YES □／NO □

6) Only a few children go and live with animals.

YES □／NO □

2．What will Richard's life be like in the forest? Can you guess? Make sentences, using some of these words.

food, clothes, sleep, friends, mother and father, bicycle

3．What is going to happen in the story? Can you guess? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Richard will live with a family of cats.

YES □／NO □

2) Richard will come home after a few weeks.

YES □／NO □

3) Richard will kill an animal.

YES □／NO □

4) Richard will die.

YES □／NO □





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1．Read Chapter 1. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Rewrite the false ones with the correct information.

1) Richard and three more children are going to do their Year of Sharing.

2) Richard has got a recorder in his ear.

3) Richard's friends are at the party with him.

4) Richard wants to live with a family of sheep.

5) Richard's mother came to say goodbye to him.

6) Richard is going to go to sleep and wake up with an animal family.

2．Read Chapter 2, and then answer these questions.

1) Which animal family did Richard wake up with?

2) Why was Richard cold?

3) What food did Richard see?

4) Why didn't he eat it?

5) What do the deer noises mean?

6) Who did Richard play with?

7) What did the family do in the afternoon?

8) Where did Richard fall asleep?

9) What did he do before he fell asleep?

3．Read Chapter 3. Here are some untrue sentences about it. Change them into true sentences.

1) Richard didn't want to be back in the village.

2) Richard didn't like Baby and Brother.

3) Richard ate a lot of fruit and vegetables every day.

4) Mother knocked Richard over with her antlers.

5) Richard saw a cat coming through the trees.

6) Richard threw stones at Baby.

7) Two wolves were following Richard.

8) The three wolves ran away from Richard.

9) Brother climbed a tree.

4．Read Chapter 4, and then answer these questions.

Why

1)...did Richard scream and run away?

2)...did Richard go back to the deer family?

3)...did Father hit Mother with his antlers?

4)...did Brother jump up and down?

5)...did Father go through water as often as possible?

6)...did Richard break up stones into little pieces?

7)....did Richard make a catapult?

8)...did Baby scream?

9)...did Father leave Baby near a river?

10)...did Richard run back to Baby?

11)...were the wolves surprised?

5．Before you read Chapter 5, can you guess what happens? The title of the chapter is The wolves are coming. Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Richard and Baby find the deer family again.

YES□／NO□

2) The wolves kill Baby.

YES□／NO□

3) The wolves kill Richard.

YES□／NO□

4) Richard kills a lot of wolves.

YES□／NO□

5) The deer run away from the wolves.

YES□／NO□

6．Read Chapter 5, then put these sentences in the right order.

1) He knew they were following the smell of blood.

2) Then he ran very fast to a hill two miles away.

3) It was a big lake and he and Baby swam across it.

4) So he cut himself on the leg because he wanted the wolves to follow him, not his deer family.

5) The next day, he and Baby found their deer family on the hills.

6) So he used his nose to find water.

7) He climbed up the rocks just in time.

8) Richard wanted to make sure that the wolves couldn't follow him.

9) But the wolves were waiting for him at the bottom.

10) When they got to the other side, Richard fell asleep.

11) Later, Richard heard the wolves howling again.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


1．Here is a possible ending to the story. Match these parts of sentences and put them in the correct order to make a paragraph of five sentences. Use these linking words.

and /and/because/because/so/when

1)...he was frightened.

2) he suddenly fell all the way to the bottom of the rocks

3)...he was near the top,

4) Richard fell asleep

5)...tried to climb to the top of the rocks.

6) He also felt ill and hungry

7)...the wolves jumped on him.

8)...he didn't have any breakfast.

9) The next morning, he woke up early

10)...he was very tired.

11) The wolves were still watching him,

2．Which is your favourite animal? Choose from this list, or use a dictionary. Would you like to live with your favourite animal? Explain why, or why not.

bird, cat, cow, deer, fish, horse, sheep, wolf

3．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter ______.

1) Why was Richard in the tree?

2) What did the wolves do?

3) What did Richard do after that?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption : ______________________________.

4．How did Richard live in the forest? Make sentences like this from the chart.

Example: He ate roots from the ground.

5．Match the sentences with the deer. Then use the sentences to write a short description of each deer. Join them with and where possible and use pronouns ( he , she , his , her ).

Baby, Brother, Father, Mother

1) ______ makes a noise that means 'Where are you?'

2) ______ is soft to touch.

3) ______ is afraid of nothing.

4) ______ gets the best things to eat.

5) ______ is funny.

6) ______ never talks to Mother.

7) ______ helps Baby to get leaves and fruit.

8) ______ is always jumping up and down.

9) ______ smells of milk.

10) ______ teaches Baby to jump as high as she can.

11) ______ is always walking around.

12) ______ teaches Baby about eating and smelling.

6．Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with these sentences? Explain why.

1) Richard's mother and father didn't love him.

2) Richard was right to be angry and bored with his life in the village.

3) The deer family was a better family for Richard than his real family.

4) Richard was wrong to try and save the deer family.

5) In today's world, people have everything and animals have nothing.

7．Choose one of these sentences and complete it with your own ideas.

1) The Year of Sharing is a stupid and dangerous idea because ______.

2) The Year of Sharing is a good idea because ______.

8．Richard's world is different from our world today. Write five sentences about the differences. Use some of these words.

cars, bicycles, meat, villages, cities, people, animals, factories, cats and dogs, houses, children

9．How do you imagine the world of the future? Will it be like Richard's world? Write five sentences about 'your' future.

CONTENTS

“书虫”免费 增值服务上线！

免费

第一时间获得习题答案、检验阅读水平、记录学习轨迹

更多精彩内容，登录http://2u4u.fltrp.com/reading





京权图字：01-2013-7824

京权图字：01-2013-7824

Published by arrangement with Oxford University Press for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom. This edition is for sale in the mainland of China only, excluding Hong Kong SAR, Macao SAR and Taiwan.

© Oxford University Press 2012

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

山怪的故事：英汉对照／（英）沃克（Walker, S.）著；（英）约翰逊（Johnson, P. F.）绘；周晶译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2014.2

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Troll and other stories

ISBN 978-7-5135-4070-4

Ⅰ．①山…　Ⅱ．①沃…　②约…　③周…　Ⅲ．①英语－汉语－对照读物②中篇小说－英国－现代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2014）第029031号

出版人　　蔡剑峰

责任编辑　徐　宁

执行编辑　蔡　颖

出版发行　外语教学与研究出版社

社　　址　北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

网　　址　http://www.fltrp.com

版　　次　2014年3月第1版

书　　号　ISBN 978-7-5135-4070-4

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


有人说他们不相信世上有幽灵或怪物，也不相信任何神秘事件。他们会哈哈大笑，说这些不过是哄小孩子的故事。在大白天周围人群环绕的时候，将这些故事付之一笑很容易。但是为什么世界上每个国家都有鬼怪的故事呢？为什么总是有人在讲鬼怪的故事呢？科学能解释一切事物 吗？

阿卜杜勒是个新派的年轻人，生活在阿曼，他带着给弟弟奥马尔的礼物——一个电脑游戏——回家过周末，他一辈子都不会忘记那趟旅程。亚洲的一场漫长战争结束后，一名士兵回家去见他的母亲，但事情却有些不太对劲……

不过，我们的故事是从瑞典的索尼娅开始的。在瑞典，人人都听过山怪的故事，但索尼娅却知道这些故事是真的，因为她的爷爷……

（本书故事属非现实题材）





TROLL AND OTHER STORIES


Some people say that they don't believe in ghosts, or monsters, or mysterious happenings of any kind. They laugh, and say that these are just stories for children. It is easy to laugh in daylight, with people around you. But why are there stories about ghosts in every country of the world? Why do people go on telling ghost stories? Can science explain everything that happens?

Abdul is a modern young man in Oman, going home for the weekend, with a present of a computer game for his little brother Omar. He will never forget that journey for the rest of his life. And a soldier in Asia returns home to his mother after a long war, but there is something not quite right...

But we begin with Sonja in Sweden. Everybody has heard stories about the monsters called trolls in Sweden, but Sonja knows the stories are true, because of her grandfather...





Troll


A story from Sweden

In Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, and Iceland, people tell many different stories about trolls. Trolls are big, ugly creatures, who live in the mountains... Or they are small and horrible, and make trouble around the house. Some stories say you can see them, some say you can only feel that a troll is near.

This story comes from a Swedish woman called Sonja. It is a true story, she says, and it really happened to her.

When I was a little girl, many years ago, I lived with my mother and father and grandfather in my grandfather's house. It was an old house with a big garden, which had a lot of fruit trees in it.

My mother and my father both worked all day, so my grandfather took care of me. I loved my grandfather and I followed him everywhere. When he was working, I liked to watch, and I always tried to help.

One sunny morning after breakfast my grandfather went out into the garden and I went with him. He looked at one of the old apple trees, shook his head, then went back into the house. I followed him. He went to his tool cupboard and began to look through his tools.

At the back of the cupboard was a metal saw, for cutting wood. But now the saw was old and broken.

'Are you going to cut some wood, Grandpa?' I said. 'Can I help you?'

'No, little Sonja,' Grandpa said. 'This old saw is broken now. But it can still do a job, and you can help. I'll need a hammer and some nails too. Please carry the nails for me. I'll carry the hammer because it's heavy.'

Grandpa carried the broken saw and the hammer into the garden. I followed him with the nails. I said to myself, 'I'm helping Grandpa!'

In the garden, Grandpa went to one of the old apple trees. He put the broken saw into the tree, high up. First he made a little cut in the tree, and then pushed the saw hard into the cut. Then he took three nails from me, and hammered them into the tree, around the old saw.

Grandpa put the broken saw into the tree, high up.

It was a very old tree, and I saw that there were lots of old nails in it.

Grandpa finished. 'There,' he said. 'That's good. The saw won't fall out of the tree now.'

I was only six years old, and I did not understand.

'Grandpa,' I asked. 'Why did you do that?'

'Because of trolls,' Grandpa said.

I knew that a troll was a kind of monster. People said they were ugly and frightening and dangerous, and that they did bad things. But I did not know what things.

'Trolls don't like metal,' said Grandpa. 'If you put something metal in a tree, like that old saw, then the trolls will stay away. They will not come into your garden or into your house while the metal is there.'

He touched the tree, with the old nails in it.

'My father put metal in these trees,' he said, 'and my grandfather did it before him, and his father before that. And I do the same. Young people today don't follow these ways, but I'm teaching you, little Sonja, so you'll know. And that's why we put that old saw in this tree.'

'What will happen if you don't put something metal in a tree?' I asked.

'If you don't do it, then perhaps a troll will come,' said Grandpa. 'If you are lucky, it will not stay. It will just pass through the garden, maybe. But if you are unlucky – very unlucky – the troll will come into your house. If you are really unlucky, the troll will stay. It will sit in your kitchen. You won't see it, but you will know it is there.'

'If a troll comes and sits in the kitchen, what will it do?' I asked.

Grandpa looked very serious.

'A troll does not need to do anything,' he said. 'Just a troll sitting in your house, in your kitchen! Nothing can be right in a house if a troll is there! Nothing can go right in the family! All the good luck, all the happiness goes out of the house when a troll sits in your kitchen. That is terrible enough!'

After a few years, my mother and father and I left my grandfather's house, and moved into a modern house with a little garden of our own. I forgot about trolls. My mother and father never talked about trolls, and nobody put metal in the trees in our garden.

There were two young trees in the garden and between them there was a washing line. On sunny days we put our wet clothes out on the washing line to get dry.

On my grandfather's first visit, he sat in the kitchen with my mother and father, drinking coffee and talking, and looking out of the window at our garden.

My grandfather sat in the kitchen, drinking coffee and talking.

It was a beautiful sunny day. There were wet clothes on the washing line, but they did not move because there was no wind. Everything was still in the garden that day.

I sat in the kitchen and listened to my grandfather and my parents for a while. But the garden looked so beautiful! I decided to go out and play, and I went to the garden door to go out.

Suddenly my grandfather said, 'Sonja, stop!'

I stopped, with my hand on the door.

Grandpa was looking through the window at the garden outside.

'Troll!' he said. His face was white.

In the garden, the sun was shining. There was no wind. No leaves moved on the trees, everything was still.

But the wet clothes on the washing line were moving, all by themselves. They were turning, and turning – this way, and that way...

They were tying themselves into knots.

ugly adj. not pleasant to look at; the opposite of beautiful 丑陋的

ugly

tool n. a thing you hold in your hand and use to do a special job 工具

tool

saw n. a metal tool for cutting wood 锯子

saw

hammer n. a tool with a heavy metal head, used for hitting nails 锤子

hammer

nail n. a small thin piece of metal with a sharp end, used to fix things together 钉子

nail

serious adj. not funny, not joking or playing 严肃的

serious

washing line a long piece of plastic or rope, for hanging wet clothes 晾衣绳

washing line

tie v. to make a knot in something 打结

tie

knot n. a place where two ends of cloth or string are tied together 结

knot

山怪


瑞典故事


在挪威、瑞典、丹麦、芬兰和冰岛流传着各种各样关于山怪的故事。有的故事说山怪是一种巨大而丑陋的怪物，住在大山里；有的故事则说它们矮小而可怕，会搅得家宅不宁。有的故事说你能看见它们，也有的故事说你只能感觉到它们在附近。

以下这个故事是一个叫索尼娅的瑞典女人讲述的。她说这是一个真实的故事，是她的亲身经历。

许多年前，当我还是个小女孩的时候，我跟父母和爷爷一起住在爷爷家里。那是一座老房子，有个很大的花园，里面种了好多果树。

我父母整天都要工作，所以是爷爷照顾我。我很爱爷爷，他走到哪里我都跟着。他干活儿的时候，我喜欢在一旁看着，而且总想帮忙。

一天早上，阳光很好，早饭后我跟着爷爷来到花园里。他看了看其中一株老苹果树，摇了摇头，又回到了屋子里。我跟在爷爷后面，只见他走到工具柜前，开始翻找起自己的工具来。

柜子最里面有把金属锯子，是锯木头用的，不过现在已经又旧又破了。

“你要锯木头吗，爷爷？”我说，“我能帮你吗？”

“不，小索尼娅。”爷爷说，“这把旧锯子已经坏了。不过它还有个用处，你也能帮上忙。我还需要一个锤子和一些钉子。就请你帮我拿着钉子吧。锤子太重，我来拿。”

爷爷把破锯子和锤子拿到花园里。我拿着钉子跟在后面，心想：“我在给爷爷帮忙呢！”

走进花园，爷爷来到其中一株老苹果树跟前。他把破锯子高高地插到树上。他先在树上锯出一条小口子，然后用力把锯子插进这条口子里。接着，他从我手里拿了三颗钉子，用锤子钉到树上，就钉在旧锯子周围。

那是一株很老的树，我看到树上有很多旧钉子。

爷爷钉好了钉子。“好了，”他说，“这样就行了。现在锯子不会从树上掉下来了。”

那时我只有六岁，不明白这是怎么回事。

“爷爷，”我问，“你为什么要这样做？”

“为了防山怪。”爷爷说。

我知道山怪是一种怪物，据说它们又难看又可怕又危险，而且还做坏事。不过我不知道是怎样的坏事。

“山怪不喜欢金属。”爷爷说，“如果你把金属的东西放在树上，就像那把旧锯子，山怪就会避开。只要有金属的东西在，它们就不会进你的花园，也不会进你的房子。”

他摸了摸钉满旧钉子的树。

“我父亲在这些树上放置过金属物件，”他说，“在他之前，我爷爷也这么做，再往前我爷爷的父亲也这么做。我也这么做。如今的年轻人不再遵循这些传统啦，但是我现在把这个教给你，小索尼娅，好让你知道。这就是我们把旧锯子放到树上的原因。”

“如果你不在树上放金属的东西会怎么样？”我问。

“如果你不这么做，那山怪就可能会来。”爷爷说，“要是你走运，它不会久留，可能只是从花园经过。但是如果你不走运——非常不走运——那山怪就会进入你的房子。如果你倒霉透顶，那山怪就会留下来。它会坐在你的厨房里。你看不见它，但是你能感觉到它在那儿。”

“如果有山怪来了，坐到了厨房里，它又会做什么呢？”我问。

爷爷看起来非常严肃。

“山怪不需要做任何事。”他说，“只要你的房子里有只山怪，还坐在你的厨房里，这就够糟了！家里有山怪，就会家宅不宁，诸事不顺！当你的厨房里坐着一只山怪的时候，所有的好运和快乐都会从家中消失。那就够可怕的了！”

几年后，我随父母离开爷爷家，搬进了一座现代的房子里，有了一个我们自己的小花园。我忘记了关于山怪的事。我的父母从没有说起过山怪，也没人在我们花园里的树上放置金属物件。

花园里有两棵小树，中间拴了条晾衣绳。太阳好的时候，我们把湿衣服挂出去，在晾衣绳上晒干。

爷爷第一次来做客的时候，跟我父母一起坐在厨房里一边喝着咖啡聊天，一边望着窗外的花园。

那天天气晴朗，太阳高照。晾衣绳上挂着湿衣服，但是因为没有风，所以衣服一动不动。那天花园里的一切都是静止的。

我坐在厨房里听爷爷和我父母聊了一会儿。但花园看起来那么漂亮！我决定到外面去玩，于是走向通往花园的门。

突然，爷爷说：“索尼娅，别动！”

我停住脚步，手已经搭在门上了。

爷爷正透过窗子看向花园。

“山怪！”他说。他的脸色发白。

花园里阳光灿烂，一丝风都没有，树上的叶子一动不动，一切都是静止的。

但是晾衣绳上的湿衣服却自己动了起来。它们转来转去——一下朝这边，一下又朝那边……

它们把自己打成了结。





A Gift for Omar


A story from Oman

All over the world there are stories about meeting strange travellers in lonely places. Who are they? Where have they come from? Where are they going?

This is one of those stories. It happens in Oman, on Route 21, the long road that runs across the lonely hills behind the great Al Hajar mountains.

Oman is a big country, and the roads in Oman are very long. 'Long and empty,' thought Abdul.

He was standing next to his car, by the side of Route 21, the long road that runs from Buraimi to Nizwa. He was waiting for a car to pass by, but the road was empty. There were no houses and no traffic.

Abdul was angry with his car, because it did not go any more. He was angry with himself, because he did not check the car before he left Buraimi. And he was angry with his mobile phone too, because there was no signal. He couldn't use it to phone for help.

Every Wednesday evening, Abdul drove from his office in Buraimi to his family home in Nizwa. He liked to spend the weekend, which in Oman is Thursday and Friday, at home with his family.

He put his hand in his pocket and touched a hard, flat box. It was a computer game – a gift, a present for his youngest brother, Omar. Omar was eight years old and loved computer games. This was a new game, the very newest game. Only one of the computer shops in Buraimi had it, and Abdul was the first person to buy it.

'Omar will be so excited!' he thought. 'He'll have this game before any of his friends have it.'

He bought the game, left Buraimi, and started driving to Nizwa. He wanted to get home before Omar was asleep. So he did not wait to check his car before he left Buraimi, which was a mistake. A big mistake.

Now he was standing by the side of the road, with a dead car, in the middle of nowhere.

'How long will I have to wait before another car comes along?' he thought. 'It's getting dark.'

He looked up at the sky. The sun was down behind the mountains, and the stars were beginning to come out. A hot dry wind was blowing. There was no moon.

At that moment he saw car lights.

'It's my lucky night after all,' he thought. The car was coming very fast over the hills. Its lights looked unusual – very yellow, like the eyes of a cat … or a tiger.

'That's strange,' thought Abdul. Then he saw that the car would be past him in a second. He moved into the road, put both his arms above his head, and waved.

The car made a noise like a scream and stopped right in front of him. It was a long, black car. Abdul did not know what kind of car it was, but it looked fast.

The door opened and the driver looked out at Abdul. He was wearing dark glasses and had a big smile – a very big smile. Abdul started to say something about his car, about going to Nizwa. The driver did not say anything, but he waved his hand at the seat next to him. Abdul got in and closed the door. The car screamed again and drove quickly away.

The driver was wearing dark glasses and had a big smile.

Inside the car it was dark and quiet. The only light was a kind of red or orange.

'Where's that light coming from?' thought Abdul. He spoke to the driver, telling him again that he was going to Nizwa.

The driver did not answer. He just smiled his big smile and looked at the road. His glasses were very dark.

'I can't see his eyes behind those glasses, but I think he's looking at the road,' thought Abdul. 'I hope he is. He's driving so fast!'

The driver was wearing a traditional long robe, which hid his legs and feet.

Abdul looked out of the window. The car was moving very fast.

'That's good,' Abdul told himself. 'Fast is good. I'll get home to Nizwa quickly, driving like this. I'll see my family and give Omar his gift, his computer game. This driver's a bit strange – I really don't like that smile! – but it doesn't matter. The important thing is to get home.'

It was night now. The dark road, passing quickly, looked different from usual.

'Where are we?' thought Abdul, looking out of the window again. 'I know this road very well – I drive along it twice a week. Why does it look different tonight?'

Inside the car, the red and orange light looked a little brighter.

'Where's that light coming from?' thought Abdul. 'What is it? It's moving all the time. It looks like... it looks like fire. But it can't be. There can't be a fire in here, inside this car.'

He looked at the driver and quickly looked away again. The smile was even bigger than before.

'That smile is horrible,' he thought. 'I don't want to look at it. I'm sure he knows I'm looking at him. But how can he see through those dark glasses? Don't think about it! The important thing is to get home.'

Abdul thought about the big family house in Nizwa, with its big wooden front door. It was safe there.

The thought of home made him feel better. 'Everything will be fine when I get home. I'll open the door and walk in. It will be late, and everyone will be asleep, but I'll see them all in the morning, and I'll give Omar his gift then.'

He put his hand into his pocket and touched the hard flat box of the computer game, the gift for his little brother.

'There it is,' he thought. 'Omar's gift. I hope he likes it.'

'Yes,' said the driver. 'He will enjoy your gift.'

Abdul was very surprised – and afraid. 'What's happening?' he thought. 'I didn't speak! I was thinking, not speaking, but the driver answered my thought. He knows what I'm thinking! He can hear my thoughts.'

He looked at the driver. The driver was looking at the road in front of him, and he was still smiling that big, horrible smile. The light in the car was brighter, more red and orange.

And then Abdul understood. The strange light was coming from the driver – from behind his dark glasses.

'His eyes!' Abdul thought. 'His eyes are made of fire!'

It was only a thought. But Abdul knew now that the driver could hear him. He felt cold with fear. He tried to stop thinking about eyes of fire, about the road which looked different, and about the car which screamed like an animal. He thought about his family, about rain falling on the trees in Nizwa, about playing football with Omar.

The driver's smile got bigger. He turned to look at Abdul, and put his hand up to his dark glasses.

'Oh no!' thought Abdul. 'He's going to take his glasses off!'

Abdul forgot about getting home. He forgot about seeing his family. He even forgot about his little brother Omar, and the gift for him in his pocket. He thought about only one thing.

He did not want to see the driver's eyes!

Abdul put his hand on the car door next to him.

The driver took off his dark glasses. Abdul looked down, away from the driver's face. The light inside the car suddenly got brighter. It was a moving light, red and orange, like fire. By the strange light, Abdul saw the driver's foot under his long robe.

By the strange light, Abdul saw the driver's foot under his long robe.

It was the foot of an animal.

The car door opened suddenly. Abdul fell out.

When Abdul opened his eyes, he was lying on stones.

He got up carefully. Nothing was broken, but he hurt all over. His face felt dirty and there were little stones in his hair. He looked around quickly. He could not see the long black car, but he still felt afraid.

'Perhaps the driver will come back and find me,' he thought. 'If he comes back... What do I do then?'

He looked around again, and for the first time that night, he knew the road. He was near a place called Tanuf, which was not far from Nizwa. He could call a taxi out from Nizwa to take him home.

Home! Abdul stopped feeling afraid. He would soon be home. He put his hand into his pocket and found his mobile phone. There was a good signal, and he called a number in Nizwa and asked for a taxi to take him home. It was late, after midnight.

'They'll all be asleep now,' he thought. 'I won't wake them up. I'll just go in quietly, and see them all in the morning.'

Abdul put his hand in his pocket again. It was empty. The computer game, his gift for Omar, was not there.

Abdul looked for the computer game, walking up and down the road. He moved stones and looked underneath them, but he could not find it anywhere. He was still looking for Omar's gift when the taxi arrived.

Abdul looked for the computer game, walking up and down the road.

In the taxi, Abdul started to feel better. He did not want to think about the driver, with his horrible smile and his eyes of fire. He thought about being safe.

'The good thing,' he thought, 'is that he... it... that driver, did not take me all the way home. He knows that I live in Nizwa, but that's all. He doesn't know which street, and he doesn't know my name. He can't find me, or my family. So I don't need to worry.'

Abdul felt sorry about his brother's present. But Omar was safe. His family was safe. He didn't have a gift for Omar now, but it was not important.

'I can buy another computer game next week,' he thought. 'This weekend I haven't got a gift for him, but it doesn't matter. We'll have a good time. Maybe we'll play football tomorrow. And that thing... that creature, with those eyes... he can't hurt us. He can't find us.'

It was a long time after midnight when the taxi stopped outside Abdul's home in Nizwa. Abdul paid the driver and walked to the door of his house. Then he stopped.

Outside the door lay a flat, thin box. Abdul knew what it was.

It was the computer game, his gift for Omar.

check v. to look at something to see that it is right, good, or safe 检查

check

signal n. the radio waves that make mobile phones work （手机）信号

signal

game n. an activity that you do to have fun 游戏

game

tiger n. a large wild cat, with yellow fur and black stripes 老虎

tiger

wave v. to move your hand from side to side in the air 挥舞

wave

traditional adj. of something that people in a certain place have done for a long time 传统的

traditional

robe n. a long loose piece of clothing 长袍

robe

horrible adj. bad or unpleasant 可怕的，吓人的

horrible

thought n. thinking; an idea 想法；念头

thought

fear n. the feeling that you have when you are afraid 恐惧

fear

underneath prep. directly under another object 在……下面

underneath

safe adj. free from danger 安全的

safe

creature n. any living thing that is not a plant （非植物的）生物

creature

给奥马尔的礼物


阿曼故事

世界各地都流传着在荒凉的地方遇到奇怪旅行者的故事。他们是谁？他们从哪里来？又要到哪里去？

以下就是这样一个故事。它发生在阿曼的21号公路上，这条绵长的公路在高耸的哈杰尔山脉背后穿越荒凉的丘陵。

阿曼是一个很大的国家，那里的公路很长。“又长又空荡。”阿卜杜勒想。

他此刻正站在自己的车子旁，在连接布赖米和奈兹瓦的绵长的21号公路边。他正等着有车经过，但路上空空荡荡。这里既没有人家，也没有车流。

阿卜杜勒生自己车子的气，因为车子抛锚了。他也生自己的气，因为他在离开布赖米前没有检查一下车子。另外他还生他手机的气，因为这里没有信号，他没法打电话求援。

每个星期三的晚上，阿卜杜勒都要从位于布赖米的办公室开车回奈兹瓦的家。他喜欢在家跟家人一起过周末——阿曼的周末是星期四和星期五。

他把手伸进口袋，碰到了一个扁平的硬盒子。那是一个电脑游戏——是给他最小的弟弟奥马尔的礼物。奥马尔八岁，非常喜欢电脑游戏。这是款新游戏，而且是最新的。布赖米只有一家电脑商店出售这款游戏，而阿卜杜勒是第一个买到游戏的人。

“奥马尔肯定要激动坏了！”他想，“他会比他任何一个朋友都更早得到这款游戏。”

他买了游戏，离开布赖米，开车朝奈兹瓦驶去。他想在奥马尔睡觉前赶回家，所以离开布赖米前，他没花点时间检查车子。显然这是个错误，一个很大的错误。

现在他站在公路边，守着一辆抛了锚的车，前不着村，后不着店。

“我得等多久才能有车来呢？”他想，“天快黑了。”

他抬头看了看天。太阳已经落到了山后面，星星开始钻出来。四下里刮着干热的风。今晚没有月亮。

这时，他看到了车灯。

“今天晚上我还是走运的。”他想。那辆车很快地翻过山丘驶来，车灯看起来不同寻常——很黄，就像是猫眼……或者老虎的眼睛。

“真奇怪。”阿卜杜勒想。这时，他看到那辆车马上就要从他身边经过了。他跑到路上，高举双臂挥舞起来。

那车尖叫似的嘎吱一声，停在了他跟前。那是一辆黑色的长轿车。阿卜杜勒不知道是什么牌子的车，不过它看起来速度很快。

车门开了，司机从车里看向阿卜杜勒。他戴着墨镜，咧嘴露出笑容——嘴咧得很夸张。阿卜杜勒开始解释说，他要去奈兹瓦，但是车抛锚了。那司机没说话，只是伸手朝身旁的座位比划了一下。阿卜杜勒上了车，关上车门。车子又尖叫一声，飞快地开走了。

车子里昏暗又安静，只有一点说不清楚是红色还是橙色的光。

“那光是从哪里来的？”阿卜杜勒想。他再次对司机说，他要去奈兹瓦。

司机没有回答，只是咧着嘴笑，眼睛看着路。他的墨镜非常黑。

“我看不见他墨镜后的眼睛，不过我想他是在看路。”阿卜杜勒想，“我希望他是在看路。他开车可真够快的！”

司机穿着一件传统的长袍，遮住了腿和脚。

阿卜杜勒望向窗外。车子开得飞快。

“挺好，”阿卜杜勒心想，“开得快好。按这种车速，我很快就能回到奈兹瓦的家里。我可以见到家人，给奥马尔他的礼物，那个电脑游戏。这个司机有点古怪——我真不喜欢他的那种笑容！不过没关系，要紧的是回家。”

夜幕降临。飞速后退的漆黑公路看起来跟平常不大一样。

“我们到哪里了？”阿卜杜勒想着，又望了望窗外，“我对这条路很熟——每星期都要开个来回。为什么公路今晚看起来不大一样呢？”

车里面红中带橙的光看起来亮了一些。

“那光是从哪里来的？”阿卜杜勒想，“是什么光？它一直在动，看起来就像……就像是火。但那不可能。车里不可能有火。”

他瞟了司机一眼，又飞快地移开了视线。那笑容比之前更夸张了。

“他的笑容真吓人。”他想，“我不想看他的笑容。我敢肯定，他知道我在看他。不过他戴着那副墨镜，怎么看东西啊？别想了！要紧的是回家。”

阿卜杜勒想着自己家在奈兹瓦的大房子，房子有一扇巨大的木头前门。那里很安全。

想到家让他感觉好了一些。“回到家一切就都好了。我会开门进去。到时候已经很晚了，大家都睡了，不过等到早上我就能见到他们，那时我再把奥马尔的礼物给他。”

他把手伸进口袋，摸了摸装电脑游戏的扁平硬盒子，那是给他弟弟的礼物。

“在这儿呢，”他想，“给奥马尔的礼物。我希望他会喜欢。”

“会的，”司机说，“他会喜欢你的礼物。”

阿卜杜勒大吃一惊——而且吓坏了。“怎么回事？”他想，“我没开口说话啊！我只是在想 ，没说出来，但司机居然回答了我想的事情。他知道我在想什么！他能读心。”

他看向司机。司机正看着前面的路，仍然咧着嘴，露出那夸张、可怕的笑容。车里的光更亮了，红中带橙的颜色也更深了。

这时阿卜杜勒明白过来。那奇怪的光来自司机——来自他的墨镜后面。

“他的眼睛！”阿卜杜勒想，“他的眼睛是火！”

他只是在心里这样想。但阿卜杜勒知道司机能读他的心。他吓得浑身发冷。他试图不去想那火样的眼睛、看起来异常的道路，还有像动物一样尖叫的车子。他想着自己的家人，想着雨水落在奈兹瓦的树上，想着跟奥马尔一起踢足球。

司机的笑容更夸张了。他扭头看向阿卜杜勒，抬手要取下墨镜。

“哦，不！”阿卜杜勒想，“他要摘掉墨镜！”

阿卜杜勒忘了回家，也忘了要见家人。他甚至忘了他的弟弟奥马尔，还有口袋里要给他的礼物。他只想着一件事。

他不想看到司机的眼睛！

阿卜杜勒抓住了身旁的车门。

司机摘掉了墨镜。阿卜杜勒低下眼睛，避开司机的脸。车里的光突然更亮了。那光在动，红中带橙，像火一样。借着那奇怪的光，阿卜杜勒看到了司机长袍下的脚。

那是一只动物的脚。

车门突然开了。阿卜杜勒摔了出去。

阿卜杜勒睁开眼睛的时候，发现自己躺在石头地上。

他小心地站起身。没有哪里骨折，但是他全身都疼。他感觉脸上很脏，头发里还有小石子。他很快地四下看了看，那辆黑色长轿车不见踪影，但他还是感到害怕。

“或许那司机会回来找到我。”他想，“要是他回来……我该怎么办呢？”

他又四下看了看，今天晚上第一次认出了路。他在一个叫泰努夫的地方附近，离奈兹瓦已经不远了。他可以从奈兹瓦叫一辆出租车来接他回家。

家！阿卜杜勒不害怕了。他很快就能回到家里。他把手伸进口袋找出了手机。这里信号良好，他拨了一个奈兹瓦的号码，叫了一辆出租车来接他回家。这时已过了午夜，夜已深。

“他们现在应该都睡着了。”他想，“我还是别叫醒他们了。我要悄悄进门，到早上再见他们。”

阿卜杜勒又把手伸进口袋里，里面是空的。他要送给奥马尔的那个电脑游戏不见了。

阿卜杜勒在路上走来走去找那个电脑游戏。他连石头底下都翻开看了，可还是到处都找不到。出租车到的时候他还在找给奥马尔的礼物。

坐在出租车里，阿卜杜勒开始感觉好些了。他不愿再想那个有着可怕笑容、火样眼睛的司机。他只想着自己现在安全了。

“幸好，”他想，“他……它……那个司机，没把我直接送到家。他知道我住在奈兹瓦，但仅此而已。他不知道我住哪条街，也不知道我的名字。他找不到我和我的家人，所以我不用担心。”

阿卜杜勒很遗憾弄丢了给弟弟的礼物。但奥马尔是安全的。他的家人是安全的。他现在虽然没有礼物送给奥马尔，但那并不重要。

“我可以下周再买一个电脑游戏。”他想，“这个周末我不能给他礼物了，不过没关系。我们在一起会过得很愉快。或许我们明天可以去踢足球。那个东西……那个有火样眼睛的生物……他不会伤害到我们。他找不到我们。”

出租车停在奈兹瓦阿卜杜勒家的门口时，午夜已经过了很久。阿卜杜勒付了司机车费，走向他家的大门。突然，他停住了。

门外放着一个扁平的盒子。阿卜杜勒知道那是什么。

是那个电脑游戏，他要送给奥马尔的礼物。





The Road Home


A story from East Asia

There have been so many wars, in every country of the world. When the wars finish, the soldiers have to return home. But they are different men, and they return to a different world. War changes people.

This story is about a soldier from East Asia. War has changed him greatly. It is a sad story, but in a strange way, also a happy one.

The long war was over, and the soldier was going home. His road home was long and hard.

In the beginning, the soldier was not alone on the road. Many other soldiers were going home too, and for a long time they walked together, not speaking, just thinking about their homes at the end of the long road.

They walked across rice fields, past banana farms, along empty roads, through silent villages. No lights showed in the windows of the dark houses. Nothing moved, only the soldiers and the wind in the trees.

After a while, each man took his own road home. One turned right and went up into the mountains. Another turned left, down to the sea and the fishing boats. Some soldiers followed the road to far cities; others followed the small roads into the hills. One by one, they went their different ways.

One by one, they went their different ways.

The soldier walked on alone, taking his own road home. He did not think about the other soldiers, or about the war. He thought only about the long road back to his home.

'Home,' thought the soldier. 'I know my home is at the end of this road. I just need to go on walking.'

The road felt hard under his boots, and the only sound was the noise of his boots on the road – tramp, tramp, tramp. He was tired and thirsty, and his mouth was dry as dust.

'There's no water,' he thought. 'Just dust. Dust in my mouth. Dust everywhere.'

Tramp, tramp, tramp went his boots.

'Don't stop walking,' he told himself. 'I can't stop. I mustn't stop. I'll rest when I get home. Mother will make tea, and then I can rest.'

He tried to walk faster, but he felt so tired, so tired. His feet felt heavier and heavier, and he walked more and more slowly. He wanted to lie down by the side of the road, in the dark, and stay there.

'If I lie down,' he thought, 'I'll never get up again.'

So he went on walking, one foot in front of the other, tramp, tramp, tramp.

'The war is finished,' he told himself. 'Forget the war. Just think about home. I must get home. I promised.'

The road began to go up into the hills. There were trees on each side, and their dark leaves in the night made the road dark too. The road climbed up and up into the hills. He knew his home was somewhere on the other side of the hills.

'I can see it now,' he thought. 'Our little house, so small, but always clean and quiet. I can see the lamp on the table... I can see Mother, with her long black hair. She's sitting in her chair, singing my little sister to sleep. My little sister... She was just a baby when I left. How old is she now? Three? Four? Can she talk yet?'

He felt sad, because he could not remember his little sister's face.

'But I remember Mother at the door when I went away to the war,' he thought. 'I remember her words, every one of them. Go safely, and be sure to come back to me. And I promised her. I will come home. Those were my words, and I must keep my promise to her.'

Now the road began to turn downhill, and the land beside the road fell away into fields and woods.

'I know those fields down there,' he thought. 'I know these woods. I can't remember their names, but I know my village is down in this valley. Mother's waiting, down there, at home.'

The soldier walked on, along the dark road under the trees. He was so tired. His feet felt so heavy and his mouth was so dry. He wanted to lie down in the dark and never move again. But his boots went on hitting the road –tramp, tramp, tramp.

The soldier walked on, along the dark road under the trees.

'If I stop now,' he told himself, 'I'll never see Mother again. And I promised her, so I must go on walking. Rest. When I get home, I can rest. Mother will make tea. We'll sit in her quiet room and drink tea together, and then my mouth will not be so dry.'

The soldier's village looked different in the dark. There were fewer trees and gardens. There were more houses, and they looked bigger than he remembered. But the soldier knew that this was his village at last, at the end of his road. He was nearly home, and home is home.

The soldier went through his village like the wind. In no time at all, he stood outside his mother's little house. It was the smallest house in the village, and the only one that still looked the same. But the soldier did not care about the other houses.

He stood outside his mother's door. He touched the door with his hand, and it opened. Inside he saw the little clean room, the table, the lamp... Across the room his mother was lying in her bed.

'Of course,' he thought, 'It's the middle of the night. She's sleeping, of course. She works so hard. She needs to rest, like me.'

Then, for a second, the soldier thought he was in the wrong house, because the body lying in the bed was an old, old woman with white hair.

But at that moment, the body moved. His mother's eyes opened, and she looked at him and smiled. She got up and came across the room to the open door, and took his hand. Something was still lying in the bed behind her, but the soldier looked only at his mother. Still young, with her long dark hair falling around her face.

'I knew you would come back,' she said, 'I waited for you.'

'I came as fast as I could,' said the soldier, 'but it was a long road home.'

'Yes,' said his mother, 'I've waited a long time. But you are home now, at last. Sit down and rest. I will make tea.'

The soldier sat down. His mother lit the lamp and made tea, moving quietly around the room. The soldier forgot about the war, and the long road home. He felt quiet and peaceful. His mother put the tea on the table, and they both drank.

The soldier finished his tea. He said, 'I'm sorry it took so long to come home.'

'The important thing is that you have come,' said his mother. 'I've waited a long time for you. So long! But I knew you would come back in the end.'

'I promised you that I would come home,' he said.

'Yes,' said his mother. 'I knew you would keep your promise, and so I waited for you. Now you have come, we can leave together.'

They stood up. The soldier did not feel tired any more. He felt light, like a bird, like a drop of rain. He looked around his mother's room for the last time, then took his mother's hand. Behind them, on the other side of the room, there was something lying in the bed. It was the body of an old, old woman, lying very still. But the soldier did not look at it. He saw only the kind and loving face of his mother, with her long dark hair falling around her face.

She came across the room to the open door, and took his hand.

The soldier and his mother moved quickly to the door, holding hands. They went outside into the bright starlight, and were gone.

The soldier's little sister visited her mother every day. The sister was now a woman of sixty-eight years, with three adult children of her own, and five grandchildren. Her oldest granddaughter, who was fifteen, was with her today.

The sister lived in a new, modern house just outside the city. She wanted her old mother to come and live with her, in her comfortable modern house, but the mother always said no, she would not leave her little old house. She wanted to stay in her own home.

'Why won't she come and live with us, Grandma?' asked the sister's granddaughter.

'It's because of my brother,' said the sister. 'Years ago, when I was only a baby, there was a war. My brother was a soldier. He went away to the war, and he never came home again.'

'What happened to him?' asked the granddaughter. 'Did he die?'

'I don't know,' said the sister. 'My mother never heard what happened to him. I can't remember him at all, but my mother has never forgotten him. I don't think that a day goes past when she doesn't think about him.'

So many young men went away to that war. So many did not come back. The ones who did come back were now old men, but the soldier's mother went on waiting. She would not move to a new house. Even now, when she was so old herself, she would not leave.

For the last few years, she could not get out of bed. She was not ill, but she was very tired, and she could not walk. So the sister came every day to visit her mother and to sit with her in the little house. A nurse came every day too, because the mother was so old.

Today, the sister was taking her granddaughter with her. 'It'll be good for you,' she told her granddaughter, 'to spend some time with my mother.'

'What will we have to do for her, Grandma?' asked the granddaughter.

'We'll help her sit up in bed,' said the sister. 'We'll wash her face and tidy her hair. And we'll make tea for her. When the nurse comes, we can leave.'

They were driving to the mother's house along the new road. This was a fast road that went from the city around the hills to the villages in the valley on the other side. The old road went over the hills.

'You never use the old road, do you, Grandma?' the granddaughter said.

'No, it takes too long that way,' said the sister.

'Good,' said the granddaughter. 'I don't like that road. There are lots of trees along it, and they make the road very dark. Girls at school say that if you walk there at night, you can hear a ghost.'

'They say that if you walk there at night, you can hear a ghost.'

The sister laughed. 'A ghost!' she said.

'It's true, Grandma!' said the granddaughter. 'That's what they say. No one's ever seen the ghost, but people have heard it. It's someone in heavy boots walking along the road – tramp, tramp, tramp.'

'Ah yes, I remember now,' said the sister. 'There is a story about the road over the hills. When I was a girl at school, years ago, people were telling the same story even then. Some ghost stories go on for ever, don't they?'

When they arrived in the village, the sister stopped the car outside her mother's little house. She opened the front door and looked inside. She was not surprised by what she saw.

'Wait outside,' she told her granddaughter quickly. 'Use your mobile phone to call an ambulance. Then wait in the car.' She did not say that a doctor was no longer necessary.

The sister shut the door and sat down next to her mother's bed. She held her mother's cold hand. Her mother looked peaceful, the sister thought. She looked happy.

There was only one thing that the sister did not understand. On the little table, on the other side of the room, there were two empty tea cups.

war n. fighting between countries or between groups of people 战争

war

sad adj. unhappy 悲伤的

sad

tramp n. the sound of heavy walking 沉重的脚步声

tramp

thirsty adj. feeling that you want or need a drink 口渴的

thirsty

dust n. dry dirt that is like powder 尘土；灰尘

dust

valley n. the low land between mountains 山谷

valley

peaceful adj. calm and quiet 平静的

peaceful

comfortable adj. making you feel physically relaxed and satisfied 舒适的

comfortable

ambulance n. a special vehicle that is used to take ill or injured people to hospital 救护车

ambulance

回家的路


东亚故事

世界上每个国家都发生过许多场战争。战争结束后，士兵们得回家。但他们跟原来不同了，而他们要回去的也是一个不同的世界。战争会改变人。

以下这个故事讲的是一个来自东亚的士兵。战争极大地改变了他。这是个悲伤的故事，但从某种奇怪的角度来看，也是个快乐的故事。

长年的战争结束了，士兵要回家去。他回家的路既漫长又艰辛。

开始的时候，士兵在路上并不孤单。许多其他士兵也走在回家的路上，他们一起走了很长时间，没有人说话，只是各自想着长路尽头的家。

他们走过稻田，经过香蕉园，行过空无一人的道路，穿过寂静的村庄。房子漆黑一片，窗户里没有灯光。除了士兵和林中的风，一切都静止不动。

过了一阵子，每个人都走上了各自回家的路。一个人向右转，朝大山走去。另一个人向左转，朝大海和渔船走去。有些士兵沿着大路朝远方的城市走去，另一些则沿着小路朝丘陵走去。一个又一个，他们走上了各自不同的路。

士兵独自走在自己回家的路上。他没有去想其他士兵，也没有去想这场战争。他一心只想着回家的漫漫长路。

“家。”士兵想，“我知道家就在这条路的尽头，我只管走下去就行了。”

脚底下的路很硬，靴子踩在路上的声音是唯一的声响——咔，咔，咔。他又累又渴，嘴里像尘土一样干。

“没有水，”他想，“只有土。我的嘴里是土，到处都是土。”

他的靴子咔、咔、咔地踩在路上。

“别停下，”他对自己说，“我不能停下。我一定不能停下。到了家我再休息。妈妈会泡好茶，那时我就能休息了。”

他试图走快一点儿，但他太累，太累了。他感觉脚越来越沉，走得也越来越慢。他想在黑暗里躺倒在路边，躺下再也不动。

“要是我躺下，”他想，“我就再也起不来了。”

于是他继续走，一步又一步，咔，咔，咔。

“战争结束了，”他告诉自己，“忘记战争。只想着家。我必须回家去。我答应过的。”

路开始上坡，进入丘陵。路两边有了树；在夜里，树上暗色的叶子让路变得更加黑黢黢的。路上坡又上坡，一直进到丘陵深处。他知道自己的家就在丘陵后面的某个地方。

“我现在能看见它了，”他想，“我们的小房子，那么小，但总是又整洁又安静。我能看到桌上的灯……我能看到妈妈，她的头发又黑又长。她坐在椅子上，唱着歌哄我的妹妹睡觉。我的妹妹……我离开的时候她还是个婴儿。她现在多大了？三岁？四岁？她会说话了吗？”

他心里感到难过，因为他记不起妹妹的脸了。

“但我记得离家去参战时，妈妈在门口送别的情景。”他想，“我记得她说的话，每个字都记得。‘去吧，好好保重，一定要回到我身边来。’我答应了她，‘我会回家的。’我这么说了，就得遵守对她的许诺。”

现在路开始下坡，路旁的山地向下延伸到田野和树林。

“我认得下面那些田野。”他想，“我认得这些树林。我记不起它们的名字，但是我知道家乡的村子就在下面这条山谷里。妈妈就在山下的家里等着我。”

士兵沿着树林遮蔽下黑黢黢的道路继续往前走。他太累了，双脚那么沉，嘴里那么干。他想在黑暗里躺下，再也不挪动一下。但是他的靴子继续踏在路上——咔，咔，咔。

“如果我现在停下来，”他告诉自己，“我就再也见不到妈妈了。我答应过她的，所以我必须继续走下去。休息——等我到家，就能休息了。妈妈会泡好茶。我们会坐在她安静的房间里一起喝茶，那时我的嘴就不会这么干了。”

士兵家乡的村子在黑夜里看起来跟原来不大一样。树木和菜园比原来少了。房子变多了，而且看起来比他记忆中的要大。但是士兵知道终于到了自己的村子，就在路的尽头。他就要到家了，家就是家。

士兵像风一样穿过村子。转眼间，他就站在了母亲的小屋外。这是村里最小的房子，也是唯一一座没有变样的房子。不过士兵并不关心别的房子怎样。

他站在母亲房子的门口。他伸手碰了一下门，门开了。他看到里面整洁的小房间，看到桌子，还看到灯……在房间的另一头，母亲正躺在床上。

“当然，”他想，“现在是半夜，她当然在睡觉。她干活儿那么累，需要休息，就和我一样。”

接着，有那么一瞬间，士兵以为自己走错了房子，因为床上躺的是个白发苍苍、年纪老迈的妇人。

可就在这时，床上的人动了动。他母亲睁开眼睛看到他，露出了微笑。她从床上起来，走过房间，来到打开的门前，握住了他的手。她身后的床上还有什么东西躺着，但士兵只是看着自己的母亲。她还是那么年轻，长长的黑发从脸侧垂下来。

“我知道你会回来的。”她说，“我在等你。”

“我已经尽快往回赶了，”士兵说，“但回家的路太长了。”

“是啊，”他母亲说，“我等了好久。但是你现在终于回来了。坐下歇歇吧，我去泡茶。”

士兵坐下来。他母亲点上灯，泡了壶茶，在房间里悄无声息地走来走去。士兵忘记了那场战争，忘记了回家的漫漫长路。他觉得平静安宁。他母亲把茶放在桌上，两人一起喝茶。

士兵喝完了他的茶。他说：“我很抱歉用了这么久才回到家。”

“重要的是你回来了。”他母亲说，“我等了你很久。那么久！但是我知道你最后会回来的。”

“我答应了您要回家的。”他说。

“是啊。”他母亲说，“我知道你会遵守诺言，所以我一直等你。现在你回来了，我们可以一起离开了。”

他们站起来。士兵不再疲倦。他觉得身子轻盈，像鸟儿，也像雨滴。他最后一次环视母亲的房间，然后拉住了母亲的手。在他们身后，房间的另一头，有什么东西躺在床上。那是一个年纪老迈的妇人，躺在那里一动不动。但是士兵没有朝那里看。他的眼里只有母亲慈爱的脸和垂在她脸侧的黑色长发。

士兵和母亲手拉着手快步走到门口，跨进门外璀璨的星光，然后不见了。

士兵的妹妹每天都来看望母亲。妹妹如今已经是位68岁的老人了，有三个已长大成人的孩子和五个孙辈。她的大孙女今年15岁，今天跟她一起来了。

妹妹住在市郊一座现代化的新房子里。她想让老母亲搬来跟她一起住在舒适的现代化房子里，但母亲总是不答应。她不肯离开自己老旧的小房子，她想要住在自己的家里。

“她为什么不来跟我们一起住呢，奶奶？”妹妹的孙女问。

“因为我的哥哥。”妹妹说，“很多年前，我还是个婴儿的时候，发生过一场战争。我哥哥是个士兵。他上了战场，再也没有回来。”

“他发生了什么事？”孙女问，“他阵亡了吗？”

“我不知道。”妹妹说，“我妈妈再也没有听到他的消息。我完全不记得他了，但是我妈妈却一直忘不了他。我相信她没有一天不想起他。”

那么多年轻人去参加了那场战争。那么多人没有回来。那些回来的人如今也都老了，但是士兵的母亲一直在等他。她不愿搬到新房子去住。即便到了现在，她自己已经老迈不堪，她也不愿离开。

近几年，她已经下不了床。她没有生病，但是非常疲惫，也走不了路。于是妹妹每天都来看望母亲，陪着她坐在小屋里。还有一位护士每天也会来，因为母亲年纪实在太大了。

今天，妹妹带着孙女一起来了。“你来陪陪我妈妈是一件好事。”她对孙女说。

“我们要为她做些什么呢，奶奶？”孙女问。

“我们要扶她在床上坐起来。”妹妹说，“我们要帮她洗脸，梳头。我们还要为她泡茶。等护士来了，我们再离开。”

她们沿着新修的路开车去母亲家。这是一条高速公路，从城市绕过丘陵到达另一侧山谷里的几个村落。原来的路是翻山过去的。

“您从不走原来那条路，是吧，奶奶？”孙女说。

“是啊，走那条路花的时间太长。”妹妹说。

“这样挺好，”孙女说，“我不喜欢那条路。两边的树太多，把路遮得黑黢黢的。学校里的女生们说，如果你晚上走那条路，可以听见一个幽灵。”

妹妹笑了起来。“一个幽灵！”她说。

“是真的，奶奶！”孙女说，“她们就是这么说的。没人见过那个幽灵，但是有人听到过他发出的声音。他穿着重重的靴子走在路上——咔，咔，咔。”

“啊，是的，我现在想起来了。”妹妹说，“翻山的那条路有个故事。很多年前，我还在上学的时候，人们也在讲同样的故事。有些鬼故事会一直流传，不是吗？”

她们到了村子，妹妹把车停在了母亲的小屋外。她打开屋门，朝里面看去。屋里的情形并没有让她吃惊。

“你等在外面。”她很快地吩咐孙女，“用你的手机叫辆救护车来，然后在车里等着。”她没说叫医生来已经没有用了。

妹妹关上门，在母亲的床前坐下。她握住母亲冰凉的手。母亲看起来很安详，妹妹想。她看起来很开心。

只有一件事妹妹不太明白。房间另一头的小桌上放着两只空茶杯。

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1 Read the introduction of the book, and the back cover . How much do you know now about the stories? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) There is a ghost or monster in every story.

YES □／NO □

2) In one story a soldier goes away to war.

YES □／NO □

3) All the stories come from different countries.

YES □／NO □

4) Sonja's grandfather was a troll.

YES □／NO □

5) Some people believe in ghosts.

YES □／NO □

6) Science can explain everything that happens.

YES □／NO □

2 What can you guess about these stories? Read these sentences, and put a circle round the words that you like best.

1) Sonja's grandfather hates / likes trolls.

2) Sonja sees / does not see a troll in her garden.

3) Abdul has a frightening / wonderful ride with a stranger.

4) Abdul loses / forgets the computer game for his little brother Omar.

5) The soldier finds / does not find his mother at home.

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1 Here are the thoughts of three characters (one from each story). Who is thinking, and in which story? Who are they thinking about, and what is happening in the story?

1) 'Why can't I stay up a bit later? I'm not at all sleepy! I did want to see him – why hasn't he come? He always brings me a gift, and there's that new computer game that all my friends are talking about. Perhaps he's bringing it...'

2) 'It's a long time to wait, a very long time. One day soon I'll go to sleep, and never wake up. But I know he'll come back – he promised. He'll come through the door, and I'll make tea for him, the way I always did. That's why I must stay here, in this house, ready for his return...'

3) 'Well, that's a good job done – it'll keep them away. And it's good that my granddaughter helped me. She needs to learn about life's dangers. My son and his wife just laugh, and say they don't believe in these things, but they haven't seen what I've seen...'

2 Use the clues to complete this crossword with words from the stories. All the words go across.

1) The soldier was _____, but there was no water to drink.

2) Sonja's parents don't believe in _____.

3) The wet clothes on the washing line were _____ themselves into knots.

4) The driver of the black car was wearing a _____ robe.

5) The old woman's family called an _____ to the house.

6) Abdul bought a computer _____ for his little brother.

3 Match these parts of sentences about the people in the stories. There are three parts to each sentence. Then choose the best linking words to join the parts together.

First parts of the sentence

First parts of the sentence

1) Sonja's grandfather puts something metal in a tree,...

2) The soldier wants to see his mother,...

3) Abdul doesn't check his car...

Second parts of the sentence

Second parts of the sentence

4) while / before he leaves Buraimi,...

5) why / because he doesn't want a troll in his garden,...

6) which / who will make tea for him,...

Third parts of the sentence

Third parts of the sentence

7) after / before he gets home.

8) but / what Sonja's parents don't do that.

9) when / so he has to get in the stranger's car.

4 A Gift for Omar. What do you think happens next in this story? Answer these questions. Then, using your answers and your own ideas, write a new paragraph to end the story.

1) What does Abdul do with the computer game? He...

a) throws it away.

b) takes it back to the shop.

c) gives it to Omar.

d) burns it.

2) What happens with the driver of the black car?

a) Nobody ever sees him again.

b) He drives behind Abdul all the way back to Buraimi.

c) He appears on the screen in the computer game.

d) He waits in his car outside Abdul's family's house.

5 Troll. When Sonja was much older, she talked to her friend Karin about the troll in her garden. Their conversation is in the wrong order. Put it in the right order and add the speakers' names. Karin speaks first (number 5).

1) _____ 'Of course there was a wind!'

2) _____ 'Well, I didn't actually see one, but the clothes blew about on the washing line!'

3) _____ 'Come on, Sonja! No one believes that kind of thing any more!'

4) _____ 'But there wasn't any wind at all that day!'

5) _____ 'You say you saw a troll in the garden?'

6) _____ 'No, really, there wasn't. The troll was doing it – he was tying the clothes into knots!'

7) _____ 'That's what clothes do when it's windy!'

6 The Road Home. Here is a page from the granddaughter's diary some months after the old woman's death. Choose one suitable word to fill each gap.

Today I went back to Great-Grandma's _____. The people there told me something _____. They don't hear the ghostly boots _____ along the road any more. Even _____, they all agree the ghostly sounds _____ suddenly, the day after my poor _____ death! None of us can really _____ it.

7 Look at these possible new titles for the four stories. Match all the titles with the stories. Which one do you like best for each story? Explain why.

Keeping a Promise

The Man in Dark Glasses

Route 21

The Washing Line

The Saw in the Tree

Two Cups of Tea

8 What did you think of the stories? Use the table below to make sentences about them. Use as many words as you like to finish the sentences.





京权图字：01-2013-7821

京权图字：01-2013-7821

Published by arrangement with Oxford University Press for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom. This edition is for sale in the mainland of China only, excluding Hong Kong SAR, Macao SAR and Taiwan.

© Oxford University Press 2008

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

草垛之恋：英汉对照／（英）劳伦斯（Lawrence, D. H.）著；（英）巴西特（Bassett, J.）改写；（英）哈维（Harvey, B.）绘；周晶译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2014.2

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Love among the haystacks

ISBN 978-7-5135-4065-0

Ⅰ．①草…　Ⅱ．①劳…　②巴…　③哈…　④周…　Ⅲ．①英语－汉语－对照读物②中篇小说－英国－现代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2014）第029035号

出版人　　蔡剑峰

责任编辑　文雪琴

执行编辑　蔡　颖

出版发行　外语教学与研究出版社

社　　址　北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

网　　址　http://www.fltrp.com

版　　次　2014年3月第1版

书　　号　ISBN 978-7-5135-4065-0

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


当高高的草浸透了夏日的阳光，散发出芬芳的时候，就可以收割，晾成干草了。在整个寒冷且食物匮乏的冬天里，干草将一直保存夏日的甜美。但干这个活儿必须抢时间，才能让新晾的干草免受风吹雨打。所有的农场主都知道这一点。

杰弗里和莫里斯也知道。他们是农场主的儿子，堆草垛时他们总是很卖力。他们在夏日骄阳下劳作的时候，各自怀着怎样的心思？他们都在想一个姑娘，一个叫葆拉的德国姑娘，她穿着一条黄裙子，长着一双闪亮的眼睛，说起话来轻快有趣。他们这会儿就能看见她，就在山坡上毗邻草场的人家的花园里。莫里斯吻过她，但是杰弗里却没有，他对弟弟满心愤恨。他嘴很笨，觉得不会有女人爱上他，因为他不懂如何甜言蜜语讨她们欢心。

但是爱情不一定需要言语，谁知道什么时候会发生什么事呢？那天来草场的年轻女人，可不只葆拉一个……





LOVE AMONG THE HAYSTACKS


When the grass is tall and sweet and full of summer sunshine, it is time to cut it down and make hay – hay that will hold that summer sweetness all through the cold, hungry winter months. But the work must be done quickly, to keep the new hay safe from wind and rain. Every farmer knows this.

Geoffrey and Maurice know it too. They are farmer's sons, and work hard, building the haystack. But what do these young men think about, while they work under the hot summer sun? They think about a girl, a German girl called Paula, a girl in a yellow dress, a girl with bright eyes and a funny, quick way of talking. They can see her now, up the hill, in the garden of a house next to the hayfield. Maurice has kissed her, but Geoffrey has not, and Geoffrey burns with hate for his brother. He finds words difficult. No woman will ever love him, he thinks, because he cannot find the words to win her love.

But love does not always need words, and who knows what the day or the night will bring? Paula is not the only young woman to visit the hayfield that day...

1

Two brothers

The two large fields lay on a hillside that looked south. Most of the hay was already cut, and in the bright sunlight the fields were now golden green.

Across the hill, half-way up, was a high hedge, and they were building the haystack just above this hedge. It was a tall haystack, a great untidy thing standing high above the hedge, but the hay itself was light and silvery in colour, and looked as soft as a cloud. Not far away was another, finished haystack.

The empty wagon was going downhill, and in the far corner of the bottom field, where the hay was still uncut, the full wagon was just beginning its slow journey up the hill to the haystack. The hay-makers worked on, cutting the tall hay, while the wagon climbed the hill.

The two brothers on top of the haystack were having a moment's rest, waiting for the full wagon to arrive. They stood up to their knees in the soft hay, while above them the golden sun burned down, and all around them was the hot sweet smell of the silvery hay. The only two things in the world were hay and sun.

Maurice, the younger brother, was a good-looking young man of twenty-one. He was strong, full of life, with a quick bright eye and a ready smile.

'You thought,' he said to his brother, 'you were very clever last night, didn't you?' He pushed his fork into the hay, and stared at his brother, with a smile on his face.

'No. No, I didn't,' replied Geoffrey. He turned away, frowning. He was a tall, heavy young man, a year older than Maurice. He was full of strong feelings, but they burned silently inside him. He could never find words to say; he could never look anybody in the eye. He always thought the world was looking at him, and laughing.

'Oh, you did, I know you did.' Maurice laughed. 'It was your turn to sleep in the hayfield last night, but you went and hid yourself, so I had to go in your place.'

'I didn't hide myself,' said Geoffrey angrily. 'Father sent me to get some wood—'

'Oh yes, oh yes,' laughed Maurice. 'But you don't know, do you? You don't know what happened last night, up here in the hayfield.'

He laughed again, and threw himself down on his back in the hay. He put his arms across his face and lay there, smiling and remembering the night before.

Geoffrey leant on his fork and stared out over the fields. Far away was the city of Nottingham, and between, the country lay under the burning sun, with here and there the smoke from a factory going up into the sky. Geoffrey looked down again into the hayfield, at the wagon slowly climbing the hill to the haystack. 'Hurry up,' he thought. 'Hurry up.'

Geoffrey leant on his fork and stared out over the fields.

'You didn't think, did you?' said Maurice. 'You didn't think that she would be here with me, did you?'

Geoffrey stared at him, full of hate. Suddenly, he wanted to put his foot down hard on that smiling, good-looking face below him.

'Can you sing in German?' asked Maurice. 'Do you know how to kiss a German girl? Do you know how soft her neck is?' He laughed excitedly, remembering every moment of the night before.

Geoffrey burned with hate. He wanted to walk away, but he couldn't. The haystack, high above the field, was a prison holding him and his brother together.

Both brothers were shy of women. Neither of them had a girlfriend; neither of them knew what to say to a woman, or how to win her love. And now Maurice was first in the game, and the older brother did not like it.

The German girl was the governess from the house beside the top field. Geoffrey was working one day in the field when a baby pushed through a hole in the hedge from the garden of the house. Seconds later the German girl came through the hedge too, looking for the baby. Geoffrey helped her to catch the little boy, and then they stood talking for a while. Geoffrey liked her bright eyes, and her funny, quick way of talking.

'But now it's Maurice she likes best, not me,' he thought. 'She sits with him in the hayfield by moonlight, and he kisses her.'

Unhappily, he looked up the hill to the house beside the top field. From the top of the haystack he could see right into the garden, and there, suddenly, he saw the girl, in a yellow dress. He held up his arm and waved to her. She waved back, lazily. Geoffrey could see that she was not interested in him, and was waiting for Maurice.

Then Maurice stood up, and saw the girl himself. He laughed, and waved both arms at her.

'What's going on?' called a voice from below.

The full wagon was now standing at the foot of the haystack. Maurice's face turned deep red.

'Nothing!' he called.

There was the sound of laughing below, and soon a big, red-faced man climbed to the top of the hay in the wagon. He turned, stared up the hillside, and saw the yellow dress in the garden.

'Oh, it's a girl, is it?' he laughed. He was the father of Geoffrey and Maurice. 'Yes, I thought it was a girl.'

They began working again, throwing the hay from the wagon up to the top of the haystack. There the brothers had to place the hay carefully, building a stack with four strong walls which would not fall over. It was hard work. The father threw up great forkfuls of hay, Geoffrey then passed them along to Maurice, who built up the haystack's walls.

But Geoffrey was full of angry feelings. Usually he threw the hay into the places where Maurice wanted it. Now, he threw it into the middle of the stack, and Maurice had to work twice as hard, carrying it out to the walls. Once, a great forkful of hay from Geoffrey hit Maurice on the back.

'Be careful!' called Maurice angrily. 'And why are you throwing it in the middle, you stupid man?'

'I'll throw it where I like,' answered Geoffrey.

They worked on, both brothers angry now. They got hotter and tireder, and still the hay came up from the wagon below.

'There, that's the end,' the father called at last from the wagon. Geoffrey threw the last forkful into the middle of the stack, then stood still, watching Maurice.

'This side wall isn't very strong,' came the father's voice from below. 'You must build it up more.'

'No, it's fine,' called Maurice crossly.

Geoffrey moved across to the side wall, and pushed his fork down into the hay. He pushed harder, and the top of the haystack began to move just a little.

'What are you doing, you fool?' cried Maurice.

'Don't you call me a fool,' said Geoffrey, and he pushed again on his fork. Maurice jumped across to him, and pulled him away from the wall. It was not easy to stand in the soft bed of hay, and Geoffrey fell over.

Maurice pulled Geoffrey away from the wall.

Maurice called down to his father below. 'This wall is fine. It's not going to fall down.'

'All right,' came the father's voice. 'We'll be off now to bring the next wagon up here.'

Geoffrey got to his feet. 'Don't call me a fool again, do you hear?' he said heavily.

'Not until next time,' said his brother.

Maurice went on working, moving round the stack and building up the walls. Geoffrey stood still, hand on his fork, looking out over the fields. He did not move even when Maurice needed to get past him.

'Move, will you?' said Maurice.

There was no reply. Maurice put out his arm and tried to push his brother out of his way.

'Who are you pushing?' said Geoffrey angrily.

'You,' replied Maurice, and at once the two brothers began to fight. Each pushed against the other as hard as he could, but Geoffrey was the heavier of the two men, and slowly he began to win.

Maurice had to move back, but his feet caught in the hay, and he fell over the side of the stack, all the way down to the ground.

hay n. grass which is cut and dried, and used as food for animals 干草

hay

hedge n. a line of small trees that makes a kind of wall round a field 树篱

hedge

stare v. to look at someone or something for a long time 注视

stare

frown v. to move your eyebrows together to make lines on your forehead (you frown when you are worried or angry) 皱眉

frown

shy adj. not able to talk easily to people that you do not know 害羞的

shy

governess n. a woman employed to teach the children of a rich family in their home 女家庭教师

governess

wave v. to move your hand from side to side, to say hello or goodbye 挥手

wave

twice adv. two times 两次；两倍

twice

crossly adv. angrily 生气地

crossly

1

两兄弟

朝南的山坡上有两大片草场。大多数干草已经收割了，现在的草场在明亮的阳光下呈现一片金绿色。

半山坡上，有一道高高的树篱，人们正在这道树篱外面堆干草垛。草垛很高，乱糟糟的一大堆，高出树篱好大一截。不过干草本身很轻，泛着银色，看起来像云一样柔软。不远处是一个已经堆好的草垛。

空马车正在下山，在下面那片草场最远处的角落，还有尚未收割的干草。满载的马车就从那里出发，慢吞吞地朝着山坡上的草垛行进。马车上山的时候，收干草的工人继续干活儿，割着高高的干草。

草垛上的两兄弟这会儿得了空当儿，等着满载干草的马车上来。他们站在没膝的柔软干草里，头顶上金色的太阳炙烤着大地，周围热烘烘地弥漫着银色干草的芬芳。天地间只剩干草和阳光。

弟弟莫里斯21岁，是个英俊的小伙子。他很强壮，充满活力，眼睛明亮有神，脸上常常挂着微笑。

“你觉得，”他对哥哥说，“自己昨晚做得很精明，是不是？”他把草杈插到干草里，笑吟吟地看着他哥哥。

“不。不，我没有。”杰弗里回答。他皱着眉转过了头。他是个又高又壮的年轻人，比莫里斯大一岁。他有着热烈的情感，但都藏在心里，无声地沸腾。他总是不知该如何用语言表达；也不敢与人对视。他老觉得所有人都在看着他，笑话他。

“哦，你有，我知道你有。”莫里斯笑道，“昨天轮到你在干草场过夜，但是你却跑掉藏了起来，我只好替你值夜。”

“我没藏起来。”杰弗里生气地说，“爸爸叫我去弄些木头……”

“哦，好吧，好吧。”莫里斯笑了起来，“但你不知道，是不是？你不知道昨天晚上草场这儿发生了什么。”

他又笑了起来，仰面倒在干草上。他躺在那儿，用手臂挡住脸，笑吟吟地回忆起前一天晚上发生的事。

杰弗里倚在草杈上，望向田野。远处是诺丁汉城，中间则是太阳炙烤下的乡村，从工厂升起来的烟飘散在天空中。杰弗里又望向下方的草场，看着马车慢悠悠地爬坡，朝着草垛而来。“快点儿。”他想，“快点儿。”

“你没想到吧，是不是？”莫里斯说，“你没想到她 会来这儿陪我，是不是？”

杰弗里恨恨地瞪着他。突然，他想把那张微笑的俊脸用力踩在脚下。

“你会用德语唱歌吗？”莫里斯问，“你知道怎么跟德国姑娘接吻吗？你知道她的脖子有多柔软吗？”他回味着头天夜里的每一刻，兴高采烈地笑了起来。

杰弗里心中燃烧着恨意。他想走开，但却不能。矗立在田野上的草垛，像牢房一样把他和弟弟关在一起。

两兄弟在女人面前都很害羞。他们俩都没有女朋友，也都不知道怎样跟女人说话和赢得她们的芳心。可现在莫里斯抢了先，做哥哥的可不高兴。

那个德国姑娘是山上草场旁那户人家的家庭教师。杰弗里有天在地里干活儿的时候，一个小孩儿从那户人家花园树篱上的一个洞口钻了出来。没过几秒，那个德国姑娘也从树篱那儿钻过来找孩子。杰弗里帮她抓住了那个小男孩儿，然后他们站着说了会儿话。杰弗里喜欢她明亮的眼睛，还有她那轻快有趣的说法方式。

“可现在她最喜欢的是莫里斯，而不是我。”他想，“她跟他一起坐在月光下的干草场上，他还吻了她。”

他郁闷地朝山坡高处那片草场旁的那户人家望去。站在草垛上，他能一直望到花园里，突然就看到了那个姑娘，她穿着一条黄裙子。他举起胳膊，朝她挥了挥。她也慵懒地向他招了招手。杰弗里看得出她对他并不感兴趣，而是在等莫里斯。

这时莫里斯站起来，也看见了那姑娘。他大笑起来，朝她挥舞双臂。

“怎么回事儿？”一个声音从下方传来。

满载干草的马车这会儿到了草垛跟前。莫里斯的脸一下子涨得通红。

“没什么！”他大声说。

下面传来笑声，很快一个魁梧的红脸汉子爬到了一车干草的顶上。他扭头朝山坡上张望，看到了花园里穿黄裙子的身影。

“哦，是因为姑娘，是吧？”他笑道。他是杰弗里和莫里斯的父亲。“没错，我就知道是因为姑娘。”

他们又开始干起活儿来，把马车上的干草抛到草垛上。两兄弟就在草垛顶上把这些干草小心地码放好，让草垛四壁牢固不倒。这活儿很辛苦。父亲大杈大杈地把干草扔上来，然后杰弗里把它们传给莫里斯，再由莫里斯堆放到草垛的四周。

但是杰弗里正一肚子火。平时他会把干草扔到莫里斯希望的地方，现在却都扔到了草垛中央。这下莫里斯还得把草拢到边上，费了双倍的力气。有一次，杰弗里扔过来的一大杈干草干脆砸到了莫里斯的背上。

“小心点儿！”莫里斯生气地喊着，“干吗把草扔到中间，你这笨蛋？”

“我想扔到哪儿就扔到哪儿。”杰弗里回答。

他们继续干活儿，现在两兄弟都憋了一肚子火。他们越来越热，越来越累，可干草还是不停地从下面抛上来。

“好啦，完事儿了。”马车上的父亲终于喊道。杰弗里把最后一杈干草扔到草垛中间，然后静静地站在那儿看着莫里斯。

“草垛这一面不是很牢靠。”下面传来父亲的声音，“你得把这边加固一下。”

“没事儿，不用。”莫里斯气恼地叫道。

杰弗里走到那边，把草杈插了进去。他又用力向下插了插，草垛顶部轻微地动了动。

“你在干吗，你这白痴？”莫里斯大叫。

“别叫我白痴。”杰弗里说完，又压了压草杈。莫里斯扑过去，把他从草垛边缘拽开。柔软的干草上不易站稳，杰弗里摔倒了。

莫里斯朝下面的父亲喊道：“这边没问题，不会倒的。”

“好吧。”父亲的声音传来，“我们这就再去拉一车草上来。”

杰弗里爬了起来。“别再叫我白痴，听见了吗？”他粗声粗气地说。

“下次之前不会了。”他弟弟说道。

莫里斯继续干活儿，沿着草垛四周堆放干草。杰弗里手扶草杈静静地站着，望向远处的原野。莫里斯要从他身边过去的时候，他也一动不动。

“让开点儿，行吗？”莫里斯说。

杰弗里没有回答。莫里斯伸手想把哥哥推到一边。

“你推谁呢？”杰弗里生气地说。

“你。”莫里斯话音刚落，两兄弟就扭打了起来。两人都使出全力推搡对方，不过杰弗里比较重，慢慢占了上风。

莫里斯不得不后退，可脚下被干草绊住了，一下子从草垛上掉了下来，摔在了地上。

2

The German girl

Geoffrey's face turned white. He heard the fall. He stood still, listening. He could hear no sound from below; he could hear no sound at all, anywhere. Then he was filled with sudden terror.

'Father!' he shouted, in his great deep voice. 'Father! FATHER!'

The cry rang across the fields. Men came running from the bottom field, and a girl ran down across the upper field. Geoffrey heard her strange, wild voice.

'Ah-h!' she cried out. 'Ah-h! Are you dead?'

On the top of the stack Geoffrey did not move or speak. He was too afraid to go down, too afraid even to hide in the hay. He listened to the voices below.

First to arrive was his older brother, Henry. Then came his father, and Bill, one of the farm workers.

'What's the matter? What's happened? Oh no!'

That was his father's voice. They were all silent for a few seconds, then came Henry's voice.

'He's not dead – look, he's opening his eyes.'

Geoffrey heard, but he was not pleased. Half of him wanted Maurice to be dead. 'If Maurice is not dead and only hurt, what will he say about me?' he thought. 'And what will mother say? I can never look anybody in the face again.' He felt lonely, and afraid.

Down below on the ground the German girl was crying and laughing at the same time. 'No, he's not dead, no, he's not dead, no-o.'

The German girl was crying and laughing at the same time.

'He can't speak. He needs some water,' said Henry.

'Yes, somebody must run and get some,' said the father. 'Bill, you go. The vicar's house is nearest.'

Bill ran up to the vicar's house beside the top field, where the German governess worked. Soon he came back, followed by the vicar. Maurice drank a little water, and began to make noises, trying to speak.

'What happened to him?' asked the vicar.

Everybody spoke at once, but the German girl's voice was the loudest.

'It was the brother – the other brother,' she cried. 'He knocked him over. I saw him, I was watching.'

'I don't think so,' said the father to the vicar. Then he got down next to Maurice, who was still making little noises. 'Where does it hurt, boy, eh?' he asked, worried.

'Wait a bit,' said Henry. 'Wait until he can speak.'

'Has he broken anything?' asked the vicar.

'He was lucky,' said the farm worker, Bill, 'lucky to fall on this bit of hay, and not the hard ground.'

Maurice could speak a little now, and the father asked him, 'What were you doing, boy? Were you playing around with our Geoffrey? Yes, and where is he?'

On top of the stack Geoffrey stood like a stone.

'I'll have a look on the stack,' said Henry.

Geoffrey did not want his big brother to come up on the stack, so he climbed down, and at the bottom of the ladder stood like a criminal, looking at the ground.

'What were you doing?' asked Henry's cold voice.

'I don't know. Nothing,' Geoffrey said.

'But I saw him!' cried the governess. She was sitting on the ground, holding Maurice in her arms. 'He knocked him over the side – bouf! like that!'

Henry looked from one brother to the other.

'No, girl,' whispered Maurice, smiling up at her. 'He wasn't near me. I just fell – fell over the side.'

'Oh!' cried the girl, not understanding.

'You just made a mistake,' said the father. 'That's all.'

'Oh no,' she cried. 'I saw him.'

Her name was Paula Jablonowsky, and her family came from Poland. She was twenty years old, quick and light as a wild-cat, with a strange, wild way of laughing. She had bright blue eyes and short golden hair. Everybody could see that the vicar hated her.

Maurice's face was still white, but he lay, smiling happily in the girl's arms. She smiled down at him, with her quick, bright smile. Her English was not very good, but there are stronger things than words.

Maurice lay, smiling happily in the girl's arms.

'You say what you like,' she laughed, 'about your brother, about anything.'

'Perhaps you need to go back to the children now,' the vicar said to her, frowning a little.

'I will go soon,' the girl said. She smiled at Maurice again. 'You want to get up now?' she asked softly.

'I'm not in a hurry,' Maurice said, smiling happily.

'She's leaving us soon,' the vicar whispered to the father. 'My wife really doesn't like her.'

'Why, is she—?'

'Like a wild thing – she won't do what we tell her.'

Maurice decided to get up, and the girl helped him, with her strong arms. 'You are well,' she cried happily.

'Yes, I'm all right,' he said. 'The fall knocked the breath out of me, that's all.' After a moment he walked a few steps. 'See, father,' he laughed. 'I'm fine now.'

'Fine, fine!' the girl said, her eyes shining.

Maurice laughed, and touched her face gently.

'Don't worry. She's going at the end of three weeks,' the vicar said quietly in the farmer's ear.

terror n. the feeling when you are very, very afraid 恐惧

terror

vicar n. a priest in the Church of England （英格兰圣公会的）代牧，教区牧师

vicar

criminal n. someone who is involved in illegal activities or has been proved guilty of a crime 罪犯

criminal

whisper v. to speak or say something very quietly, using your breath rather than your voice 低语

whisper

gently adv. kindly and carefully 轻柔地

gently

2

德国姑娘

杰弗里的脸一下子白了。他听到了弟弟落地的声音。他站着一动不动，仔细听着。下面没有动静，到处都没有声响。他忽然满心恐惧。

“爸爸！”他粗着嗓门儿大叫起来，“爸爸！爸爸！”

叫声传遍了四野。在下面草场干活儿的人纷纷朝这里跑过来，还有一个姑娘从上面穿过草场跑下来。杰弗里听到了她奇特而焦急的声音。

“啊——！”她叫着，“啊——！你死了吗？”

草垛顶上的杰弗里没动，也没有说话。他吓坏了，不敢下来，甚至连藏到干草里也不敢。他听着下面的人声。

第一个到的是他的哥哥亨利，接着是他父亲，还有一个叫比尔的农场工人。

“怎么了？出了什么事？哦，不！”

那是他父亲的声音。大家沉默了几秒钟，接着传来亨利的声音。

“他没有死——看，他睁眼了。”

杰弗里听到了，但他并不觉得高兴。他私心里有一半是希望莫里斯死掉的。“如果莫里斯没死，只是受了伤，他会怎么说我呢？”他想，“妈妈会怎么说呢？我永远都没脸见人了。”他觉得又孤独又害怕。

草垛下面的地上，那个德国姑娘正在又哭又笑。“对，他没死，对，他没死，没有——”

“他说不出话。他需要些水。”亨利说。

“对，得有人赶快去弄些水来。”父亲说，“比尔，你去。牧师家离这儿最近。”

比尔朝上面草场旁的牧师家跑去，那也是德国女家庭教师工作的地方。他很快就回来了，身后还跟着牧师。莫里斯喝了一点儿水，开始发出声音，试图说话。

“他怎么了？”牧师问。

大家七嘴八舌地同时开口，不过那个德国姑娘的声音最大。

“是那个哥哥，另一个哥哥。”她大叫，“他把他撞下来的。我看见了，我一直看着呢。”

“我觉着不是。”父亲对牧师说。接着，他在莫里斯身旁蹲下来，莫里斯还在发出细碎的声音。“哪里疼，孩子，呃？”他担心地问。

“等会儿吧，”亨利说，“等他能开口说话再问。”

“他有哪儿骨折了吗？”牧师问。

“他很走运，”农场工人比尔说，“幸好掉在这点儿干草上，而不是摔在硬邦邦的地上。”

莫里斯现在能说一点儿话了，于是父亲问他：“你刚才在干吗，孩子？是在跟我们的杰弗里打闹吗？对了，他人呢？”

草垛顶上，杰弗里直挺挺地站着，就像块石头。

“我去草垛上看看。”亨利说。

杰弗里不想让哥哥爬到草垛上来，就自己爬了下来，像个罪犯似的站在梯子旁，垂头望着地面。

“你们刚才在干吗？”亨利冷冷地问道。

“我不知道。没干什么。”杰弗里说。

“可我看见他了！”女家庭教师叫道。她正坐在地上，把莫里斯抱在怀里。“他把他撞下来的——砰！就像这样！”

亨利看了看两个弟弟。

“不是的，姑娘。”莫里斯小声说，对她笑了笑，“他刚才没在我旁边。我就是摔下来的——从边上摔下来的。”

“哦！”那姑娘不解地叫了一声。

“你只是看错了。”父亲说，“就是这样。”

“哦，不是的。”她大叫，“我看见 他了。”

她叫葆拉·亚布洛诺斯基，她一家来自波兰。她20岁年纪，像野猫一样敏捷轻巧，笑起来的样子很奇特，有种野性的味道。她长着明亮的蓝眼睛和一头金色的短发。人人都看得出牧师很不喜欢她。

莫里斯的脸色还很苍白，不过他靠在姑娘的怀里笑得很开心。她也低头给了他一个灿烂的微笑。她的英语不太好，但是言语并不是最有力的东西。

“你说怎样就怎样吧，”她笑道，“不管是关于你的兄弟，还是别的任何事情。”

“我看你该回去照顾孩子们了。”牧师对她说着，微微皱起了眉。

“我马上就去。”姑娘说。她又对莫里斯笑了笑。“你现在想站起来吗？”她柔声问道。

“我不着急。”莫里斯开心地笑着说。

“她很快就要离开了。”牧师对父亲悄声说，“我妻子很不喜欢她。”

“为什么，她——？”

“太野了——她根本不听我们的使唤。”

莫里斯打算站起来了，姑娘扶了他一把，她的胳膊很有力。“你没事了。”她开心地大叫。

“对，我没事了。”他说，“那一下把我摔背过气了，没别的。”过了一会儿，他走了几步。“瞧，爸爸，”他笑道，“我现在没事了。”

“太好了，太好了！”姑娘说着，眼睛闪闪发亮。

莫里斯笑了起来，轻轻地碰了碰她的脸颊。

“别担心。她再待三个星期就走。”牧师低声冲农场主耳语道。

3

The tramp and the woman

'We're not going to finish that last bit of hay today,' Henry said crossly.

The father still looked worried about Maurice. 'Are you sure you're all right?' he asked.

'Yes, I'm all right. I've told you.'

'Then sit down and rest for a bit. In a while you can get the dinner out for us.'

The men went back to work, and the governess ran back to the vicar's house, to her job with the children. Maurice sat down under a tree. 'I'll marry her,' he thought. 'Yes, I will. I've got fifty pounds, and mother will help me.' For a long time he sat there, thinking about married life. Then he got up and went to get the dinner from the big wagon by the road.

The two fields belonged to the Wookey family, but they were four miles from the home farm. So the father had to bring dinner and tea to the fields every day, and the workers ate there. Cutting the hay usually took about two weeks, and somebody had to sleep in the field at night, to watch the tools. Either Maurice or Geoffrey usually did this.

Mrs Wookey always sent a good dinner, and today was no different. There were two big meat pies, cold potatoes, bread, and a great piece of cheese. Maurice put the food out in the shade of a big tree. Everybody sat down in a circle, and ate their meal.

Everybody sat down in a circle, and ate their meal.

It was good to be out of the burning sun, under the shade of the tree. The men ate and drank silently, the father reading a newspaper, the others eating busily.

Then, 'She's here again!' said Bill. Everybody looked up. Paula was coming across the field, carrying a plate.

'She's bringing something for you, Maurice,' said Henry, laughing at him. Maurice was halfway through a great piece of meat pie and some cold potatoes.

The father laughed too. 'Put that away, Maurice. She'll want you to eat what she's brought for you.'

The father laughed. 'Put that away, Maurice.'

'Give it here,' said Bill. 'I'll eat it for you.'

Then Paula arrived. 'I bring him some chicken – him!'

She gave Maurice a bright smile. Maurice's face turned deep red, and everybody laughed aloud.

The father felt sorry for his shy son. 'Come and sit here by me,' he said to Paula.

'Thank you,' said Paula happily. She sat down next to the father and smiled at him.

'My name,' she said, 'is Paula Jablonowsky.'

'Paula, what?' said the father. The other men laughed. 'Paula, eh? Strange kind of name. My son's name is—'

'Maurice – I know.' She said the name sweetly, and Maurice's face turned an even deeper red.

'Tell me about yourself,' the father said to the girl.

'I come from Hanover, in Germany,' she said. 'My father is a shop-keeper, and I ran away from home because I didn't like him. I went to Paris and I worked in a girls' school there.'

'Did you like it?'

'Oh no – it was so boring! Nothing to do.'

'And do you like life in England?' said the father.

'No – ah, no. The vicar and his wife... no, no, no.'

'And what will you do?' the father asked.

'I will go to London, or to Paris. Or get married!' She laughed into the father's eyes.

The father laughed too. 'Get married, eh? Who to?'

'I don't know. I am going away.'

'Do you think you'd like making butter and cheese?'

'Oh yes!' She smiled her quick bright smile, and her eyes shone.

'I think she'd like anything different from her life now,' said Henry. He heard a noise and looked round. 'Hallo, who's this?' he said.

A tramp was crossing the field towards them. He was small, thin, and dirty, with mean little eyes.

'Have you got a bit of work for me?' he called out.

'A bit of work?' said the father. 'Can't you see that we've nearly finished these fields?'

'And you don't know anything about hay-making,' said Henry, coldly.

'I'm a hard worker,' said the tramp. His small eyes looked from father to son, and back again.

'Well, we've got no work for you,' said the father. 'But you can have a bit of something to eat, if you like.'

'Yes, I would,' said the man.

They gave him the last piece of meat pie. He ate it quickly, hungrily. 'That was good,' he said. He did not go away, so they gave him a piece of bread and cheese. Then he asked for a drink of water. He sat down to drink it, but the other men did not talk to him. They did not like him, and had nothing to say to him.

While he sat there, a young woman came into the field and walked down beside the hedge. She was small and finely made. Her clothes were neat and tidy, and her hair was pulled back under a sailor hat. She had a pretty face, but there was a hard, cold look in her eyes.

'Have you got some work?' she asked her man.

'Have you got some work?' the young woman asked.

'No, they haven't got any work for me. They just gave me a drink of water.'

He was a mean, hateful little man.

'And do I have to wait for you in the road all day?'

'You don't have to if you don't want to. You can go on. But if you wait a bit, perhaps you'll get something.'

The woman looked for the first time at the men, staring at them, unsmiling.

'Have you had your dinner?' asked the father. 'He's had a lot to eat. You can have some, if you want it.'

'What have you had?' she asked the man angrily.

'A great piece of meat pie, and a great piece of bread and cheese,' said Geoffrey.

The young woman looked at Geoffrey, and he at her. There was a kind of understanding between them. Both of them felt alone in the world. Geoffrey smiled a little, but she was too angry to smile.

'There's some cold potatoes,' Maurice said to the woman. 'You can have some of them.'

She frowned and did not answer. Again she looked at Geoffrey, and again there was a silent understanding between them. Then she turned and walked away.

'We must get back to work,' said Henry. He stood up and stared coldly at the tramp. 'Time to go.'

The tramp stood up too. 'Aren't you going to give me something for her? She's had nothing to eat all day.'

They gave him some bread and cheese. He pushed it into his pocket, and walked away.

tramp n. a person with no home or job, who goes from place to place 流浪汉

tramp

belong to to be the property of 属于

belong to

boring adj. not interesting in any way 无趣的，乏味的

boring

mean adj. not kind 恶意的

mean

3

流浪汉和女人

“最后一点儿干草我们今天弄不完了。”亨利不高兴地说。

父亲愁容满面，还在担心莫里斯。“你确定自己没事了？”他问。

“是的，我挺好的。我都说过了。”

“那就坐下休息一会儿。过会儿你去把我们的午饭拿出来。”

男人们回去继续干活儿，女家庭教师也跑回了牧师家照顾孩子们。莫里斯坐在一棵树下。“我要娶她。”他想，“是的，我会的。我已经存了50英镑，妈妈也会帮我的。”他在那儿坐了很长时间，脑子里想着婚后的生活。然后，他起身到路边的大马车上去取午饭。

这两片草场是伍基家的，离主农场有四英里的距离。所以父亲只好每天都把午饭和下午茶带到地里来，让干活儿的人就地吃。收割干草大约需要两个星期，晚上得留人在田里值夜，看守农具。这通常是莫里斯或杰弗里的活儿。

伍基太太给他们准备的午饭总是很丰盛，今天也不例外。有两个很大的肉馅饼、一些凉土豆、面包和一大块奶酪。莫里斯把食物摆放在一棵大树下的树荫里。大家围坐在一起吃饭。

树荫遮挡了炙热的太阳，让人感觉舒服多了。男人们安静地吃喝，父亲看着一份报纸，其他人都忙着吃东西。

这时，比尔说：“她又来了！”大家纷纷抬头看。葆拉正端着一个盘子穿过田野往这儿走来。

“她给你送吃的来了，莫里斯。”亨利笑着揶揄他。莫里斯正在吃一大块肉馅饼和一些凉土豆。

父亲也笑了起来。“把那个放下吧，莫里斯。她肯定希望你吃她给你带来的东西。”

“给我吧，”比尔说，“我帮你吃。”

这时葆拉走到了近前。“我给他带了些鸡肉——他！”

她冲莫里斯露出灿烂的微笑。莫里斯的脸顿时涨得通红，大伙儿全都大笑起来。

父亲有些同情他那害羞的儿子。“过来坐在我旁边吧。”他对葆拉说。

“谢谢。”葆拉高兴地说。她在父亲身边坐下，对他笑了笑。

“我叫葆拉·亚布洛诺斯基。”她说。

“葆拉，什么？”父亲问。其他人都笑了起来。“葆拉，呃？挺怪的名字。我儿子叫——”

“莫里斯——我知道。”她甜甜地说出这个名字，莫里斯的脸更红了。

“说说你自己吧。”父亲对姑娘说。

“我从德国的汉诺威来。”她说，“我父亲开了一家店铺。我是从家里跑出来的，因为我不喜欢他。我去了巴黎，在那儿的一所女校工作。”

“你喜欢那儿吗？”

“哦，不——太无聊了！没什么事情可做。”

“那你喜欢英国的生活吗？”父亲问。

“不——啊，不喜欢。牧师和他的妻子……不，不，不。”

“那你有什么打算？”父亲问。

“我想去伦敦，或是巴黎。或者结婚！”她望着父亲的眼睛笑道。

父亲也笑了起来。“结婚，呃？跟谁呢？”

“我不知道。我就快离开了。”

“你觉得你会喜欢做黄油和奶酪吗？”

“哦，是的！”她露出了明亮爽朗的笑容，眼睛闪闪发亮。

“我觉得只要跟她现在的生活不一样，她都会喜欢的。”亨利说。他听到了什么动静，扭头望去。“你好，你是谁？”他问。

一个流浪汉正穿过田野朝他们走来。他身材瘦小，邋里邋遢，一双小眼睛不怀好意。

“你们这儿有我干的活儿吗？”他大声问。

“活儿？”父亲说，“你没看见我们已经快把这些地收割完了吗？”

“而且你也不会晾晒干草。”亨利冷淡地说。

“我干活儿很卖力。”流浪汉说。他那双小眼睛先看了看父亲，又看了看儿子，最后回到父亲身上。

“嗯，我们没有活儿给你干。”父亲说，“但是如果你想吃东西的话，可以吃点儿。”

“我想吃。”那人说。

他们把最后一块肉馅饼给了他。他狼吞虎咽地吃完了。“味道真不错。”他说。他并没有离开，于是他们又给了他一片面包和奶酪。接着，他又要水喝。他坐下来喝水，但是其他人都不跟他搭话。他们不喜欢他，跟他也没什么可说。

他坐在那儿的时候，一个年轻女人来到了草场上，沿着树篱走下山坡。她身材娇小匀称，衣服干净整齐，头发向后梳，戴着一顶水手帽。她脸盘长得很漂亮，但眼中却流露出冷峻的神色。

“你找到活儿了吗？”她问自己的男人。

“没有，他们没有活儿给我干。他们只给我喝了口水。”

他是个卑鄙又讨厌的小个子。

“那我就得在大路上等你一整天吗？”

“你不想等就别等。你可以继续走。但是如果你等一会儿，说不定能得到点儿什么。”

女人第一次把目光转向了在场的其他人，板着脸瞅着他们。

“你吃午饭了吗？”父亲问，“他刚才吃了很多东西。如果你需要，可以吃一些。”

“你都吃了什么？”她生气地问那男人。

“一大块肉馅饼，还有一大片面包和奶酪。”杰弗里说。

年轻女人看向杰弗里，他也在看她。这两人之间存在着某种默契。他们都觉得自己在这世界上很孤单。杰弗里淡淡地笑了一下，但是她太生气，根本笑不出来。

“还有些凉土豆。”莫里斯对女人说，“你可以吃一些。”

她皱了皱眉，没有回答。她又看了看杰弗里，他们之间那无声的默契还在。接着，她转身走开了。

“我们得回去干活儿了。”亨利说。他站起来，冷冷地看着流浪汉，“该走了。”

流浪汉也站了起来。“你们不给我点儿吃的好带给她吗？她一整天没吃东西了。”

他们给了他一些面包和奶酪。他把食物塞进口袋，走了。

4

At night in the hayfield

Geoffrey worked hard all afternoon, cutting the hay, while Maurice worked on the wagon. The brothers did not speak, but the feeling between them was warm and friendly. Geoffrey understood that their little fight would stay a secret – Maurice would not tell.

The sun got hotter and hotter. There was not a breath of wind, and everybody began to feel tired.

'There's another day's work here,' said the father at teatime, while they sat under the tree.

'Somebody will have to stay the night here then,' said Geoffrey. 'I'll do it.'

'No, I'll do it,' said Maurice.

'You did it last night,' said the father. 'You must get some rest tonight.'

'No, I'm staying,' said Maurice.

'He wants to meet his girl again,' explained Henry.

The father thought about this. 'I don't know...'

But in the end Maurice stayed. At eight o'clock, after sundown, the men got on their bicycles, the father got the wagon ready, and everybody left.

Slowly, the evening sky turned dark. The young man stood alone in the field, listening to the sounds of the night. It was still hot, and from the hedges came the rich, sweet smell of wild flowers. Then the moon came out, catching the flowers in its light, and they shone like white ghostly faces against the dark of the hedge.

Higher on the hill, the farm horses, free for the night, were moving around the field. Maurice had an hour to wait before Paula came, and he decided to take a bath in the little river at the bottom of the fields.

He washed himself in the cold water, and it felt good on his warm body. Above him the tall trees by the river whispered in a little wind. 'How beautiful the night is!' he thought. Laughing, he took a handful of white flowers from the hedge, and threw them over himself.

At nine o'clock he was waiting under the tree by the haystacks. He felt both excited, and afraid. She was late. At a quarter past nine she came, running across the field, as light and as quick as a bird.

'Oh, their little girl would not go to sleep tonight,' she cried. 'I sat in that bedroom for an hour.' She looked up at the sky and took a deep breath. 'Ah, the night smells so good!' She smiled.

She was full of life, quick and strong at the same time.

'I want' – she could not find the English words – 'I would like – to run – now!'

Maurice laughed. 'Let's run, then,' he said.

And in a second she was gone. Maurice ran after her, but he could not catch her easily. At last he caught her by the arm, and they stood together, laughing.

Maurice ran after her, but he could not catch her easily.

'I can run faster,' she cried happily. 'Yes?'

'No,' he replied, with his deep little laugh. 'No, you can't.' They walked on across the field, and then suddenly saw the three farm horses in front of them.

'We ride a horse?' she said.

'Now?' said Maurice. 'In the dark?'

'Yes, yes,' she cried, 'in the dark!'

Maurice caught one of the horses, put the girl on the horse's back, then climbed up in front of her. She put her arms round his waist.

The horse walked uphill and at the top they stopped and looked round. Clouds were moving across the sky, hiding the moon and the stars. The night lay across the fields and hills like a great dark carpet, with here and there the little lights of a house or a farm.

Maurice could feel the girl's warm arms around his waist. 'Do you want to go back now?' he asked.

Maurice could feel the girl's warm arms around his waist.

'I stay with you,' she answered softly.

Maurice gave a little laugh. He wanted to kiss her, but he was afraid to. The horse moved under them.

'Let the horse go fast,' said Paula. 'Fast!'

'All right then,' Maurice said. He hit the horse's neck. 'Come on, boy, let's go!' he cried.

And away they went down the hill, faster and faster. It was a wild, dangerous, exciting ride. Maurice held on to the horse with hands and knees; Paula held on to Maurice, her arms around his waist, and her face against his strong, warm back.

At last the horse came to a stop. Paula half fell off its back, and Maurice quickly jumped down beside her. They were both laughing, and excited by their wild ride. And suddenly, he had her in his arms, and was kissing her. They did not move for some time. Then, silently, arm in arm, they walked to the haystacks.

The sky was now dark and heavy with cloud. Maurice looked up, and felt a drop of rain on his face.

'It's going to rain,' he said. 'I'll have to put the cover on the new stack.'

He left Paula, and went to the shed in the corner of the field. He pulled out the big heavy cover and pulled it across the ground to the stack.

'What are you going to do?' asked Paula.

'Put it over the top of the stack, to keep the rain out.'

'Ah!' she cried. 'Up there!'

Rain began to fall. It was very dark between the two great buildings of hay. Maurice put the long ladder up the side of the stack, and Paula stared up at the black wall of hay above her.

'You carry the cover up there?' she asked.

'Yes,' said Maurice.

'I must help you,' she said.

And she did. Maurice went first up the ladder, carrying one end of the cover, and Paula climbed up behind him, carrying the other end.

While they were climbing up the ladder, a light stopped on the road by the top field. It was Geoffrey on his bicycle, coming to help his brother with the cover for the haystack. Silently, he pushed his bicycle across the field to the shed. He was afraid to call out. If his brother was with the German girl, he did not want to surprise them together in the dark.

There was no one in the shed. He walked across to the stacks and was nearly there when he heard a noise. The ladder was slowly falling down the side of the stack. It hit the ground with a bang.

The ladder was slowly falling down the side of the stack.

'What was that?' he heard Maurice's voice, from the top of the stack.

'Something fell,' came the voice of the German girl.

Maurice lay down and looked over the side of the stack. 'It was the ladder!' he said. 'We knocked it down, when we were pulling the cover up.'

'We're in prison up here?' the girl said, excited.

'Yes. But if I shout, they'll hear at the vicar's house.'

'Oh no,' she said quickly.

'I don't want to,' he replied, with a short laugh.

He began to pull the cover across the top of the stack. Down below, Geoffrey moved quietly round the corner of the second haystack. He did not want them to see him. He heard Maurice's voice again.

'One good thing, we won't get wet. We can sit under the cover.'

'Maurice!' said the girl. She sounded worried.

'What is it?' he said gently. 'You'll be all right. Look, the cover's on now. We can sit under this corner.'

'Will I be all right, Maurice?'

'Of course you will. But do you want to go back to the vicar's house? Shall I shout for somebody?'

'No. No, I don't want to go back.'

'Are you sure?' he asked.

'Yes, yes, I am sure.' She laughed.

Geoffrey turned away at the last words, and walked back to the shed. The rain was now falling heavily. He felt miserable, and lonely.

In the shed he took the lamp off his bicycle and shone it round the walls. All the tools lay in one corner, and there was a big wooden box, and a deep bed of hay.

He put the lamp out and threw himself down on the hay. 'I'll put the ladder up for them later,' he thought. He lay there, thinking about his brother's luck, and the German girl, with her strange ways and her quick, bright laugh. 'Why does she like Maurice? Why doesn't she like me? No woman will ever love me,' he thought miserably. 'I'm too slow, I don't have the words.'

ghostly adj. like a ghost, not real 幽灵般的

ghostly

waist n. the part around the middle of your body 腰

waist

shed n. a small building for keeping tools, animals, etc 棚子

shed

bang n. a sudden very loud noise 砰的一声

bang

miserable adj. very sad or unhappy 难过的

miserable

4

草场之夜

杰弗里一下午都在卖力地收割干草，莫里斯则在马车上干活儿。兄弟俩没说话，但是两人之间的气氛融洽而友好。杰弗里明白他们的小争执不会有人知道——莫里斯不会说出去。

太阳越来越烈。一丝风也没有，大家都开始感觉累了。

“这儿的活儿还得再干一天。”他们围坐在树下喝下午茶的时候父亲说。

“那晚上这里还得有人守夜。”杰弗里说，“我来吧。”

“不，我来。”莫里斯说。

“你昨天晚上守夜了。”父亲说，“今晚你得休息一下。”

“不，我要留下。”莫里斯说。

“他想再见见他的姑娘。”亨利解释说。

父亲想了想。“我不知道……”

不过最后还是莫里斯留下了。晚上八点，太阳落山后，干活儿的人纷纷骑上自行车，父亲也套好了马车，大家都离开了。

慢慢地，傍晚的天空暗了下来。年轻人独自站在田野上，聆听着夜晚的各种声音。天还是很热，树篱那边传来野花浓郁的甜香。接着，月亮出来了，那些花儿沐浴在月亮的清辉里，在黑黢黢的树篱的映衬下，仿佛幽灵的面庞般泛着白光。

山坡高处，散放着过夜的农场马匹在田野上走来走去。莫里斯还得再等一个小时葆拉才会来，他决定先去田野下方的小河里洗个澡。

他在冷水里洗着，凉水浇在热烘烘的身上感觉很舒服。头顶上，河边高大的树木在微风中窃窃私语。“多美的夜晚！”他想。他从树篱上扯了一把白色的花，笑着撒在了自己身上。

九点钟，他在草垛旁的树下等候着，感觉又兴奋又害怕。她迟到了。九点过一刻她才穿过田野跑来，就像一只轻快的小鸟。

“哎，他们的小女儿今晚就是不肯睡。”她大声说，“我在那个卧室里坐了一个小时。”她仰望天空，深深吸了一口气。“啊，夜晚的味道真好闻！”她露出了微笑。

她充满活力，敏捷而又强壮。

“我想”——她找不到合适的英文词汇——“我想要——奔跑——就现在！”

莫里斯笑了起来。“那我们就奔跑吧。”他说。

一转眼她就跑开了。莫里斯跑着去追，却没那么容易捉住她。最后，他抓住了她的胳膊，两人一起站住，笑了起来。

“我跑得比你快。”她快乐地大声说，“对吧？”

“不，”他低沉地轻笑着回答，“不，你没我快。”他们继续走在田野上，突然看到前面有三匹农场里的马。

“我们骑马吧？”她说。

“现在？”莫里斯说，“摸着黑？”

“对啊，对啊，”她大声说，“摸着黑！”

莫里斯拉住了其中一匹马，把姑娘扶上马背，然后上马坐在了她前面。她伸手抱住了他的腰。

马朝山坡上走去，他们在山坡顶上停了下来，放眼四望。天上乌云滚滚，遮蔽了月亮和星光。夜色像一块巨大的黑毯覆盖了田野和山丘，四处是房舍或农场里闪着微弱的灯光。

莫里斯能感觉到姑娘温热的手臂环绕在他的腰上。“你想现在回去吗？”他问。

“我留下陪你。”她柔声回答。

莫里斯轻声笑了起来。他想吻她，却不敢。身下的马儿慢步走着。

“让马跑起来。”葆拉说，“快快地跑！”

“那好吧。”莫里斯说罢，拍了拍马脖子。“好啦，伙计，我们走！”他叫道。

他们冲下山坡，越来越快。真是一趟疯狂、危险又刺激的旅程。莫里斯双手抓紧缰绳，膝盖夹紧马身；葆拉紧紧地抱住莫里斯，双臂搂紧他的腰，脸贴着他强壮而温暖的后背。

最后马终于停了下来。葆拉几乎是半掉下马背的，莫里斯赶紧跳下来在她身边站定。两人都在大笑，为这次狂野的骑马经历兴奋不已。然后他忽然抱住了她，开始亲吻她。他们静静地待了片刻，然后默默地手挽着手朝草垛走去。

此刻天空黑沉沉的，乌云密布。莫里斯抬头看了看，感觉脸上落了一滴雨。

“要下雨了。”他说，“我得把新堆的草垛盖好。”

他丢下葆拉，走向草场一角的小棚子。他拖出又大又重的盖布，穿过田野朝草垛走去。

“你要怎么做？”葆拉问。

“把它盖在草垛顶上，可以防雨。”

“啊！”她叫起来，“要到上面去！”

雨开始落了下来。两个大草垛之间非常暗。莫里斯把长梯靠在草垛旁，葆拉看着上方黑色的草垛侧壁。

“你要把盖布弄上去？”她问。

“对。”莫里斯说。

“我得帮你。”她说。

她说干就干。莫里斯先拖着盖布的一头爬上梯子，葆拉抓着另一头跟着爬了上去。

就在他们爬上梯子的时候，一点灯光停在了山上草场旁的路上。那是杰弗里的。他骑着自行车来帮弟弟盖草垛。他静静地推着车穿过田野，朝棚子走去。他没敢大声招呼。如果他弟弟正跟那个德国姑娘在一起，他不想在黑暗里吓到他们。

棚子里没有人。他朝草垛走去，快走到的时候，突然听到了什么动静。梯子正顺着草垛侧壁慢慢地倒下去，砰的一声砸到了地上。

“那是什么声音？”他听到莫里斯的声音从草垛上传来。

“有东西倒了。”德国姑娘的声音传来。

莫里斯趴下，从草垛边缘望下去。“是梯子！”他说，“我们拖盖布的时候把它碰倒了。”

“我们被困在上面了？”姑娘说，显得挺兴奋。

“是的。不过如果我大声喊，牧师家里的人会听到的。”

“哦，别喊。”她赶紧说。

“我也不想喊。”他回道，笑了一声。

他开始用盖布把草垛顶部盖好。草垛下，杰弗里悄悄地转过了另一个草垛。他不想让他们看到他。他又听到了莫里斯的声音。

“好在我们不会被淋湿。我们可以坐在盖布底下。”

“莫里斯！”姑娘说。她听起来有点儿担心。

“怎么了？”他柔声问，“你不会有事的。”

“瞧，盖布现在已经盖好了。我们可以坐在这个角下面。”

“我不会有事的吧，莫里斯？”

“当然。不过，你是不是想回牧师家？我要不要叫人来？”

“不，不要。我不想回去。”

“你确定？”他问。

“是的，是的，我确定。”她笑了起来。

听到最后那句话，杰弗里转身走回了棚子。雨现在下大了。他感觉既难过又孤单。

在棚子里，他把灯从自行车上取下来，照了照四壁。所有的工具都堆在一角，棚子里还有一个大木箱和厚厚的一个草铺。

他熄了灯，躺倒在干草铺上。“我晚点儿再帮他们把梯子摆好。”他想。他躺在那儿，想着弟弟的好运，还有那个德国姑娘与众不同的举止和爽朗的笑声。“她为什么会喜欢莫里斯呢？她为什么不喜欢我呢？没有女人会爱上我。”他难过地想，“我太迟钝，也不会说话。”

5

A meeting in the dark

While Geoffrey lay there, thinking about his life, he suddenly heard a sound that was not the rain. Something was in the shed, moving towards him. For a second, terror filled him, then he jumped up, and caught the thing with his great hands.

It did not fight, just gave a small, unhappy cry.

'Let me go,' said a woman's voice.

'What do you want?' he asked, angrily.

'I thought he was here.' She began to weep, quietly.

'Who? Who did you think was here?' he said.

'My husband. He was here at dinner-time. You saw him.' She tried to pull away from his hands. 'Let me go.'

'It's you!' said Geoffrey, in surprise. 'Are you looking for that dirty little tramp that was here at dinner?' He still held her with both hands, but more gently now. 'Where did he leave you?'

'I left him – here,' she said. 'I've seen nothing of him since.'

Geoffrey gave a short laugh. 'That's a good thing, isn't it? Why would you want to see him again?'

'He's my husband – and he's not going to run away if I can stop him.'

Geoffrey was silent, not knowing what to say.

'Your clothes are wet,' he said at last.

'That's not surprising, is it, in this rain? But he's not here, so I'll go.'

'You're cold, aren't you?' said Geoffrey. 'I can feel it. You're shaking with cold.'

She did not answer. He did not know what to say.

'Wait a minute.' He found his bicycle lamp, lit it, and shone the light on her. He saw a white, tired face. Her old sailor hat and her brown coat were black with rain. Drops of water fell from her wet skirt onto her shoes.

Geoffrey shone the light on her.

He looked worried. 'You're wet right through,' he said. 'Why don't you stay in here until the rain stops?'

No answer.

'You can take your wet things off, and put a blanket round you. There's a horse-blanket in the box here.'

He waited, but there was still no answer.

He put the lamp down, opened the wooden box, and took out a big grey blanket. 'Come on,' he said, kindly. 'Take your hat and coat off, and put this round you.'

Slowly, she took off her hat and coat and put the blanket round her. She was shaking all over with cold.

'Is something the matter with you?' he said, worried.

'I've walked to Bulwell and back,' she said tiredly, 'looking for him. I've eaten nothing since this morning.' She did not weep – she was too tired, too miserable.

'You've had nothing to eat?' he said. He went back to the box. There was food in there – bread and cheese. He cut some bread and put a big piece of cheese on it.

She sat down on the end of the bed of hay, and slowly began to eat. Then he gave her a drink of water, and saw that she was still shaking.

'Can't you get warm?' he asked.

'I will in a minute. Don't you worry. I'll go soon. I'm taking your seat – are you staying here all night?'

'Yes. But you must stay, and get warm. I've got to go and see that the haystacks are all right. Take your wet things off, and get warm with that blanket round you.'

'I'll go in ten minutes. This is your place, and I'm not going to push you out. It's not right.'

'You're not pushing me out,' he said. 'I'll come back when I've looked at the stacks.'

He went. A minute later, she put the lamp out. He stood between the stacks, listening. There was only the soft rain and the dark night all around him. Everything was still, silent, black – like death, he thought.

He found his way back to the shed and went in. 'Are you all right?' he said. He lit the lamp again. Her small face looked up at him, out of the grey blanket.

'You don't need a lamp,' she said. 'Lie down and get your night's rest. I can sit at this end, out of your way.'

'I can sit at this end, out of your way,' she said.

He put the lamp out, and sat down on the hay, at the other end. Then he asked, 'Is he really your husband?'

'He is!' she answered, in a hard little voice.

'Do you follow him because you like him?' He was afraid to ask, but he wanted to know.

'I don't – I wish he was dead.' Her voice was coldly angry. Then, 'But he's my husband.'

He gave a short laugh. 'Not much of one,' he said. 'Have you been married long?'

'Four years. Since I was eighteen.'

'And do you just move about, all the time?' he asked.

'He says he's looking for a job. But he doesn't like work. He was a wagon-driver when I married him. He left that job when the baby was only two months old, and I've not had a kind word or a day's rest since then.'

'And where's the baby?'

'It died when it was ten months old.'

After that they were silent. At last Geoffrey said slowly, 'You've had a hard life.' He looked at her, but saw nothing in the dark. 'What will you do now?'

'I'll find him. He's not going to get away.'

'But why don't you leave him?'

'Because he's not going to win .'

He listened to her hard voice, and felt miserable for her. He could not see her; they were just two voices in the black night.

'Are you warm now?' he asked, half afraid.

'A bit warmer – but my feet are still terribly cold.'

'I can warm them with my hands. Shall I?'

'No, thank you,' she said, coldly. Then she felt sorry. He was kind, he was trying to help. 'But they do hurt.'

'Put them in my hands, then.'

His large, strong hands closed round her icy feet and held them. She felt his warm breath on her toes.

'Do they feel any better yet?' he asked, after a while.

She did not answer. She put out her hand and touched his hair. His hand came up to find hers, but found her face, which was wet with tears. Gently, his fingers followed the tears down her cheeks.

'What's the matter?' he said, in his slow, deep voice.

She put out both her arms and pulled his head to her. Four lonely, miserable years were suddenly behind her; she was no longer old before her time. Suddenly, it was possible to hope again, to be young, to be happy. She wept long and silently, holding Geoffrey's head close to her, with her wild tears falling on his hair.

She wept long and silently, holding Geoffrey's head close to her, with her wild tears falling on his hair.

Geoffrey sat still, full of wonder, full of love. When at last she stopped weeping, he put his arms around her, gently. And in a while, they kissed, his first love kiss.

weep v. to cry 哭

weep

blanket n. a cover that you sleep under, to keep you warm 毯子

blanket

icy adj. like ice; very, very cold 冰凉的

icy

wonder n. a feeling you have when you see something very strange or beautiful or surprising 惊奇

wonder

5

夜晚相会

杰弗里正躺着思考自己的人生，忽然听到了什么动静，不是雨声。有什么东西在棚子里，正朝他过来。一开始他害怕极了，然后他跳了起来，用他那双大手抓住了那个东西。

那个东西没有挣扎，只是发出一记不满的轻叫声。

“放开我。”一个女人的声音说。

“你想干吗？”他生气地问。

“我以为他在这里。”她开始小声地哭了起来。

“谁？你以为谁在这里？”他说。

“我丈夫。他午饭的时候来过这儿的。你看见他了。”她试图挣脱他的手，“放开我。”

“是你！”杰弗里惊叫，“你是在找午饭时来过这儿的那个肮脏的小个子流浪汉？”他双手仍然钳制着她，但不那么用力了。“他是在哪儿撇下你的？”

“是我先撇下了他，就在这儿。”她说，“那以后我就再没见过他。”

杰弗里笑了一声。“那倒是件好事，不是吗？你为什么还想见他？”

“他是我丈夫，而且只要我能阻止，就不会让他跑掉。”

杰弗里没搭话，他不知道该说什么。

“你的衣服都湿了。”他最后说。

“下这么大的雨，没什么可惊讶的，不是吗？既然他不在这儿，那我走了。”

“你很冷，是吧？”杰弗里说，“我能感觉到，你冷得直发抖。”

她没有回答。他也不知道说什么好。

“等一下。”他找到了自行车灯，点亮后照向她。他看到一张苍白而疲惫的脸。她的旧水手帽和棕色外套被雨淋得透湿，变成了黑色。水从她的湿裙子上滴滴答答地落到鞋上。

他看起来有些担心。“你全身湿透了。”他说，“干吗不在这儿等到雨停呢？”

没有回答。

“你可以把湿衣服脱下来，围一条毯子。这儿的箱子里有一条遮马的毯子。”

他等了一会儿，但还是没有回答。

他把灯放下，打开木箱，取出了一条灰色的大毯子。“来吧，”他和气地说，“把你的帽子和外衣脱掉，围上这条毯子。”

她缓缓地摘掉帽子，脱下外衣，围上了毯子。但她还是冷得全身发抖。

“你有哪里不舒服吗？”他担心地问。

“我走着去了布尔韦尔，又走回来，”她疲惫地说，“一路上都在找他。我从今天早上就没吃过东西。”她没有哭——她太累，太难过了。

“你什么都没吃？”他说着，又走到了木箱跟前。箱子里有吃的，是面包和奶酪。他切了点面包，又在上面放了一大片奶酪。

她在干草铺的一角坐下，开始慢慢地吃起来。然后，他给她倒了些水喝，见她还在发抖。

“你暖和不起来吗？”他问。

“我很快就好了。别担心，我一会儿就离开。我占了你的地方——你要整夜待在这儿吗？”

“是的。不过你得留下，暖和起来。我得去看看草垛有没有问题。把你的湿衣服脱下来，围着毯子暖和一下吧。”

“我过十分钟就走。这是你的地方，我不能赶你出去。这样不对。”

“你没有把我赶出去。”他说，“我看过了草垛就回来。”

他出去了。过了片刻，她熄了灯。他站在两个草垛中间凝神细听。周围只有轻柔的雨声和黑暗的夜。天地万物静止幽暗——就像死亡，他想。

他摸索着返回棚子，走了进去。“你还好吧？”他说着，又点亮了灯。她抬头看他，小小的脸从灰色的毯子里露出来。

“你不需要点灯。”她说，“躺下休息吧。我可以坐在这头，不会妨碍你。”

他熄了灯，在干草铺的另一头坐下。接着，他问：“他真的是你丈夫？”

“他是！”她冷冷地低声回答。

“你跟着他流浪是因为喜欢他吗？”他不太敢问，但是很想知道答案。

“我不喜欢他——我巴不得他死了。”她的声音里有冷冷的怒意。接着，她又说：“但他是我丈夫。”

他笑了一声。“可不是什么好丈夫。”他说，“你们结婚很久了吗？”

“四年。我十八岁嫁给他的。”

“你们一直就这么居无定所？”他问。

“他说他在找工作，但他不喜欢工作。我嫁给他的时候，他是个赶车的。孩子刚两个月大的时候，他就不干了。从那以后我就没听过一句好话，也没有一天安宁。”

“那孩子在哪儿？”

“十个月大的时候死了。”

之后他们沉默了一阵。最后杰弗里慢慢地说：“你过得不容易。”他望向她，可是在黑暗中什么也看不见。“你现在有什么打算？”

“我要找到他。他跑不掉。”

“但你为什么不离开他呢？”

“因为我不能让他赢 。”

他听着她冷硬的声音，替她感到难过。他看不见她，他们只是黑夜中的两个声音。

“你现在暖和了吗？”他有点儿担心地问。

“暖和点儿了，但我的脚还是冰凉的。”

“我用手帮你暖一暖，可以吗？”

“不用了，谢谢你。”她冷淡地说。说完，她又觉得抱歉。他是好意，想要帮忙。“但我的脚确实很疼。”

“那把脚放到我手里吧。”

他有力的大手包上她冰凉的脚，握住。她感觉到他在对她的脚趾哈气，暖暖的。

“现在感觉好点儿了吗？”过了一会儿，他问。

她没有回答，而是伸出手，摸了摸他的头发。他抬手寻找她的手，却碰到了她的脸，上面湿漉漉的，满是泪水。他的手指轻柔地顺着泪痕抚过她的脸颊。

“怎么了？”他问，声音低沉舒缓。

她伸出双手揽过了他的头。孤独而痛苦的四年忽然间就被抛到了脑后，她不再是那个未老先衰的自己。突然之间，她又有了希望，有了年轻和幸福的可能。她紧紧地抱着杰弗里的头，安静地哭泣了很久，汹涌的眼泪滚落在他的发间。

杰弗里静静地坐着，心中充满了惊奇和爱恋。最后，她终于停止了哭泣。他温柔地把她抱在怀里。过了一会儿，他们接吻了，那是他的初吻。

6

Breakfast in the hayfield

When Geoffrey woke, a cold morning light was coming into the shed. Outside, a heavy mist lay across the field, hiding the trees and the hedges.

The woman was sleeping in his arms, and he held her gently, staring out into the mist, still full of wonder and love. He would never be afraid or lonely again, with her beside him.

Then he looked down at her, and saw that she was open-eyed, watching him. She had golden-brown eyes, that immediately smiled into his. He also smiled, and softly kissed her.

After a time, he asked shyly, 'What's your name?'

'Lydia,' she said.

'Lydia,' he said slowly, liking the sound of it. 'My name's Geoffrey. Geoffrey Wookey.'

She smiled at him, and for a while they were silent.

'We couldn't get married, could we?' he asked.

'No.'

He thought deeply about this for some time.

'Would you go to Canada with me?'

'Perhaps you'll think differently in two months' time,' she replied quietly.

'I'll think the same. I won't change,' he said, hurt.

She watched him. She would not push him, would not hurry him. She would stay with him, but he must decide, he must do what he wanted.

'Haven't you got any family?' he asked.

'A married sister at Crick. I can go there, if you want me to. I'll get a job on a farm perhaps.'

'And then, in the spring, we'll go to Canada. You will come with me, won't you?' he said, hopefully.

'When the time comes.'

She did not trust him yet, and he understood why.

'I'll give you some money before you go to Crick,' he said. 'You'll go past our farm on your way.'

'I don't need it. I've got some money.'

Her answer worried him. Perhaps she didn't need him or his help. He began to feel afraid. 'Can I write to you? What name shall I use?'

'Mrs Bredon.'

'Your married name!' he said, with a short, hard laugh. 'I'll never see you again, will I?'

She put her arms round him and held him. There were tears in her eyes, but he was still worried, unsure.

Outside the mist was getting thinner. He remembered Maurice then, and told her about him.

'Oh,' she said. 'You must go and put the ladder up for them, you must!'

'All right. But wait here, and see Maurice. Then I can tell him about us.'

She agreed to wait, and he went out to the haystack. There was no sound from above, and he could see nothing. He put the ladder back up in the same place, and then went along the hedge, looking for firewood.

Then he heard Maurice's voice. 'Well, look at that!'

'Well, look at that!' said Maurice.

'Look at what?' That was the girl. 'The ladder – oh! You said it fell down!'

'It did,' said Maurice. 'Well, I heard a bang, and I couldn't see the ladder, or feel it.'

'You said it fell down – and it wasn't true!'

'It was true—' he began.

'Not true, not true!' she cried. 'You are bad, a mean person – mean, mean, mean!' She was wildly angry.

'All right then!' Maurice was also angry now. 'Are you coming down?'

'No! I will not come with you. You are mean – you tell me untrue things. I don't want you!'

Geoffrey, looking through the hedge, saw Maurice on the ladder. He climbed down, then stood at the bottom. 'Come on, I'll hold the ladder for you,' he called.

'No!' she cried, like a wild cat.

He waited for a while, but she did not come. 'Then stay there till you're ready,' he said quietly, and walked away. On the other side of the stack he met Geoffrey.

'What are you doing here?' he said.

'I've been here all night,' Geoffrey replied. 'I came to help you with the cover, but the cover was on, the ladder was down, and I couldn't find you.'

'Did you put the ladder up?'

'Yes, I did it just now.'

Maurice stood still, thinking. Geoffrey tried to find the words to tell him about Lydia. He began, stopped, began again, and at last told the story of his night.

'Oh!' said Maurice. He began to smile.

'The man is nothing, just a tramp, but she's different,' said Geoffrey. He wanted Maurice to understand.

'You please yourself, what you do,' said Maurice. He was quiet, worried, not like himself.

'What's the matter?' asked the older brother. It was strange to see Maurice like this, and for once Maurice was not laughing at him.

'Nothing,' said Maurice.

They went together to the shed. The woman was putting the blanket away in the box. She was washed, and tidy, and looked very neat and pretty.

'Hello,' said Maurice. He smiled, shyly. 'It was good you found somewhere to get out of the rain last night.'

'Yes,' she replied.

'Can you get more firewood?' Geoffrey asked him. It was a new thing for Geoffrey to ask Maurice to do something. Maurice agreed, and went out into the field. He did not go near the stack, afraid of meeting Paula.

At the shed Geoffrey was making a fire, while Lydia got out coffee and bread from the box. Breakfast was nearly ready when Paula arrived. She had no hat on, there were bits of hay in her hair, and she was white-faced. She did not look her best.

'Ah – you!' she cried, seeing Geoffrey.

'Hello!' he answered. 'You're out early.'

'Where's Maurice?'

'I don't know, he'll be back soon.'

Paula was silent. 'When did you come?' she asked.

'Last night, but I didn't see anybody. I got up just now, and put the ladder up, ready to take the cover off.'

Paula understood, and was silent. When Maurice returned with some wood, she was warming her hands at the fire. She looked up at him, but he would not look at her. Geoffrey met Lydia's eyes, and smiled. Maurice held out his hands to the fire.

When Maurice returned, Paula was warming her hands at the fire.

'You are cold?' asked Paula, softly.

'A bit,' he answered, friendly but not too friendly.

The four of them sat round the fire, drinking their smoky coffee, eating their bread and cheese. All the time Paula watched Maurice's face hopefully, and he watched the fire. He was gentle, but he would not look at her. And Geoffrey smiled and smiled at Lydia, who watched him with her golden-brown eyes, and did not look away.

♡　♡　♡

The German girl got back into the vicar's house that morning, and her night out in the hayfield stayed a secret. A week later, she was engaged to Maurice, and when her last three weeks with the vicar's family were finished, she came to live at the Wookey farm.

Geoffrey and Lydia stayed true, one to the other.

♥　♥　♥

mist n. thin cloud near the ground that is difficult to see through 雾

mist

engaged adj. if two people are engaged, they have agreed to marry 已订婚的

engaged

6

草场早餐

杰弗里醒来的时候，一道冷冷的晨光照进了棚子。棚外，浓雾笼罩着田野，遮蔽了树木和篱笆。

女人正在他怀中睡着，他轻轻地抱着她，望着外面的雾气，心中仍然充满了惊奇和爱恋。有她在身边，他再不会感觉害怕或孤独了。

接着，他低头看她，见她睁着眼正在看自己。她的眼睛是金棕色的，一见他看过来就盈满了笑意。他也笑了，轻轻地吻了吻她。

过了一会儿，他羞涩地问：“你叫什么名字？”

“莉迪亚。”她说。

“莉迪亚。”他慢慢重复这个名字，很喜欢它的发音，“我叫杰弗里，杰弗里·伍基。”

她对他笑了笑，两人沉默了一会儿。

“我们不能结婚，是吧？”他问。

“不能。”

他仔细想了想这个问题。

“你愿意跟我去加拿大吗？”

“或许两个月以后你就不这么想了。”她轻声回答。

“我不会改变想法的。我不会变。”他说，感觉有些受伤。

她看着他。她不想逼迫他，也不想催他做决定。她会跟他在一起，但他必须做决定，他必须按照自己的心意行事。

“你有亲人吗？”他问。

“在克里克有个已经结婚的姐姐。如果你想让我去那里，我可以去。我或许可以在哪个农场找份工作。”

“等到春天，我们就去加拿大。你会跟我一起去的，是吧？”他期待地问。

“到时候再说。”

她还不信任他，他明白为什么。

“你去克里克之前，我会给你些钱。”他说，“你会路过我们的农场。”

“不用了。我有一点儿钱。”

她的回答让他担心。或许她并不需要他或是他的帮助。他开始感到害怕。“我能写信给你吗？我应该用什么称呼？”

“布雷登太太。”

“你丈夫的姓！”他说着，嗤笑了一声，“我不会再见到你了，是吗？”

她伸出手臂抱住他。泪水涌上了她的眼睛，可他还是担心，感觉不确定。

外面的雾散了一些。这会儿他想起了莫里斯，跟她说起了他的事。

“哦，”她说，“你得去帮他们把梯子摆好，快去吧！”

“好吧。你在这儿等会儿，见见莫里斯。然后我就能跟他说我们的事啦。”

她答应等，于是他出门朝草垛走去。上面没有声音，他也看不到什么。把梯子放回原位后，他就沿着树篱寻找柴火。

这时，他听到了莫里斯的声音：“哦，看这个！”

“看什么？”是那个姑娘的声音，“梯子——哦！你还说它倒了！”

“它是倒了。”莫里斯说，“好吧，当时我听到砰的一声，又看不见也摸不到梯子。”

“你说它倒了，但那不是真的！”

“当时 是真的——”他开口道。

“不是真的，不是真的！”她叫道，“你很坏，是个坏人。很坏，很坏，很坏！”她气得不行。

“那好吧！”莫里斯现在也生气了，“你要下来吗？”

“不！我不跟你一起。你很坏，你对我说假话。我不想理你！”

杰弗里透过树篱看到莫里斯正在梯子上。莫里斯爬了下来，然后站在梯子旁。“下来吧，我帮你扶着梯子。”他叫道。

“不要！”她像野猫一样大叫。

他等了一会儿，但她没有下来。“那就等你想下来时再说吧。”他低声说着，走开了。在草垛的另一边，他遇到了杰弗里。

“你在这儿干吗？”他说。

“我在这儿待了一晚上了。”杰弗里回答，“我来帮你盖草垛，但是草垛已经盖好了。梯子倒了，我又找不到你。”

“你把梯子扶起来了？”

“对，我刚才扶起来的。”

莫里斯站着没动，想了想。杰弗里在想怎么开口告诉他莉迪亚的事。他几番开口又停下，最后还是讲了他昨夜遇到的事。

“哦！”莫里斯说着，笑了一下。

“那男人没什么，就是个流浪汉，但她不一样。”杰弗里说。他希望莫里斯能明白。

“随你便，喜欢怎么做就怎么做吧。”莫里斯说。他不愿多说话，一副忧心忡忡的样子，不像平时的他了。

“你怎么了？”做哥哥的问。他不习惯莫里斯的这副样子，莫里斯这回居然没有嘲笑他。

“没什么。”莫里斯说。

他们一起朝棚子走去。女人正把毯子放回木箱。她洗了脸，收拾得很整齐，看起来整洁又漂亮。

“你好。”莫里斯说。他羞涩地笑了笑，“昨晚你能找到避雨的地方真是太好了。”

“是啊。”她答道。

“你能再找些柴火来吗？”杰弗里问莫里斯。杰弗里支使莫里斯做事还是头一次。莫里斯应下，出门朝田野走去。他没有去草垛附近，害怕遇到葆拉。

杰弗里在棚子里生了一堆火，莉迪亚从箱子里拿出咖啡和面包。葆拉到的时候，早饭已经差不多准备好了。她没戴帽子，头发里夹杂着干草屑，脸色苍白。她看起来没有平常漂亮。

“啊——是你！”她见到杰弗里，叫了起来。

“你好！”他回答，“你出门真早。”

“莫里斯呢？”

“我不知道，他很快就回来。”

葆拉没吭声。“你什么时候来的？”她问。

“昨天晚上，但是我没见这里有人。我刚刚才起来，把梯子放好，准备把盖布取下来。”

葆拉明白了他的话，没说什么。莫里斯抱着柴火回来的时候，她正在火堆前暖手。她抬头看他，但是他避开了她的目光。杰弗里与莉迪亚相视一笑。莫里斯也伸出手烤火。

“你冷吗？”葆拉轻声问。

“有点儿。”他的回答和气却不亲近。

四人围坐在火旁喝着热气腾腾的咖啡，吃着面包和奶酪。葆拉一直期待地望着莫里斯的脸，而他却看着火堆。他很和气，但就是不看她。杰弗里不断地冲莉迪亚微笑，她那双金棕色的眼睛也望着他，视线没离开过杰弗里。

♡　♡　♡

那天早上，德国姑娘回到了牧师家，没有人知道她在草场里过了一夜。一个星期后，她跟莫里斯订了婚，等她在牧师家最后三个星期的工作结束，她就住到了伍基农场。

杰弗里和莉迪亚一直相爱，忠贞不渝。

♥　♥　♥

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1 Read the story introduction and the back cover . What do you know now about the story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) The story takes place on a cold winter's day.

YES □／NO □

2) Maurice and Geoffrey are cutting the hay.

YES □／NO □

3) The two brothers like the same woman.

YES □／NO □

4) Geoffrey is pleased about Maurice and Paula.

YES □／NO □

5) Wind and rain are bad for new hay.

YES □／NO □

6) Maurice is luckier in love than Geoffrey.

YES □／NO □

7) Geoffrey finds it easy to talk about his feelings.

YES □／NO □

2 What happens to the people in this story? Can you guess? Choose words to complete this passage.

Maurice meets Paula / another woman in the hayfield that night / the next day . Geoffrey meets Paula / another woman in the hayfield that night / the next day . She is very angry / unhappy , and when Geoffrey is kind / unkind to her, she laughs / cries . Geoffrey kisses / does not kiss her.

By the next day, everybody / nobody is miserable / in love , and the story ends happily / unhappily .

ACTIVITIES

While Reading

1 Read Chapter 1, then match these people with the sentences. (You can use the names more than once.)

Geoffrey / Maurice / the German girl

1) _____ slept in the hayfield last night.

2) _____ has never kissed a girl.

3) _____ works at the house near the hayfield.

4) _____ is interested in _____, not _____.

5) _____ pushes _____ off the haystack.

2 Before you read Chapter 2, what do you think happens? Choose one answer for each sentence.

1) Maurice...

a) breaks a leg.

b) is all right.

c) breaks his neck.

2) The German girl...

a) cries.

b) kisses Maurice.

c) hits Geoffrey.

3) Geoffrey...

a) feels pleased.

b) feels angry.

c) feels afraid.

3 Read Chapters 2 and 3. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Rewrite the false ones with the correct information.

1) Maurice was badly hurt by his fall.

2) Paula said that Geoffrey knocked Maurice over the side of the haystack.

3) Maurice told his father about the fight with Geoffrey.

4) Geoffrey did not say anything about the fight.

5) Paula worked for the vicar, but the vicar did not like her.

6) At dinner Maurice asked Paula lots of questions.

7) A tramp came into the field and asked for food.

8) The father gave the tramp something to eat.

9) The tramp's young woman had something to eat.

10) Geoffrey understood how the young woman felt.

4 Before you read Chapter 4, can you guess who will stay at the hayfield when the men stop work?

1) Geoffrey.

2) Maurice.

3) Henry.

5 Read Chapter 4, then put these sentences in the right order for the chapter.

1) Paula helped Maurice carry the cover up the ladder.

2) After the others left, Maurice washed himself in the river.

3) Geoffrey went to the shed and lay down on the hay bed.

4) The ladder fell down and Geoffrey left it there.

5) Paula came, and rode with Maurice across the hayfield.

6) Paula and Maurice stayed on top of the haystack.

7) Geoffrey arrived and walked across to the stacks.

8) It began to rain.

6 Before you read Chapter 5, A meeting in the dark , which of these people do you think meet in this chapter? Choose some names from this list.

Maurice

the father

the vicar's wife

Geoffrey

Paula

the tramp

Henry

the vicar

the tramp's woman

7 Read Chapter 5. Who said these words? Who or what were they talking about?

1) 'He's not going to run away if I can stop him.'

2) 'This is your place, and I m not going to push you out.'

3) 'Do you follow him because you like him?'

4) 'I can sit at this end, out of your way.'

5) 'It died when it was ten months old.'

6) 'I can warm them with my hands. Shall I?'

8 How does the story end? Before you read Chapter 6, can you guess which of these sentences are true? Choose as many as you like.

1) Geoffrey forgets about the ladder and goes home.

2) The four young people have breakfast together.

3) Maurice asks Paula to marry him.

4) Paula goes to London and later Maurice follows her.

5) The tramp's wife goes back to her husband.

6) Geoffrey asks the tramp's wife to go away with him.

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1 Here is Farmer Wookey telling his wife about the day. Put their conversation in the correct order and write in the speakers' names. Farmer Wookey speaks first (number 4).

1) _____ 'No, it was the wife of a tramp who was looking for work. But I felt sorry for the poor girl.'

2) _____ 'That's the girl who's working for the vicar, isn't it? Do you know her name?'

3) _____ 'Strange? Why, what happened?'

4) _____ 'It's been a strange day today.'

5) _____ 'Why? What was the matter with her?'

6) _____ 'Paula – something. I think Maurice likes her.'

7) _____ 'Well, in the morning Maurice and Geoffrey were up on the haystack, and Maurice fell off.'

8) _____ 'Who was the other? Was it Bill's daughter?'

9) _____ 'She looked so unhappy. Her husband was a mean little man. She can't have much of a life.'

10) _____ 'Oh, no! Is he all right? Did he hurt himself?'

11) _____ 'Well, I think he has. She's a bright little thing. But not the only pretty woman in the field today.'

12) _____ 'No, he's all right. That little German girl saw him fall and came running down to see him.'

13) _____ 'Does he now! I'd like him to find a nice girl.'

2 Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter _____.

1) Who is Maurice calling to on top of the haystack?

2) Where has the ladder been all night?

3) Who put the ladder up?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: ______________________________

3 Use the clues to complete this crossword with words from the story (all the words go across). Then find two hidden words (four letters or more) in the crossword.

1) You sleep under this on a bed to keep warm.

2) Very, very cold.

3) To speak in a very soft, quiet voice.

4) Water that comes from the eyes when you cry.

5) Nice to look at.

6) Very sad or unhappy.

7) The feeling when you are very, very afraid.

8) You use this to climb to a high place.

9) They put this over the haystack, to keep the rain off.

10) A farm tool which is used to pick hay up.

The hidden words are _____ and _____.

4 Here are the two women in the story talking about their plans. Complete each passage with words from this list. Then say who is speaking, and who they are talking to.

baby, Canada, cheese, engaged, farm, Germany, hate, kind, leave, marry, miserable, sorry, spring, stay, true, trust, wants

1) 'We're _____ now, Maurice and I. So I'm not going back to _____ when I _____ here. I'm going to live at the Wookey _____ and learn to make _____. I won't be_____ to leave here. You and your wife _____ me. Isn't that _____?

2) He's a good, _____ man, and I think I can _____ him. I can't _____ him, but I've had a _____ life since the _____ died. So if he still _____ me to, I'll go to _____ with him in the _____. Can I _____ with you until then?

5 What do you think is important when you choose someone to spend your life with? Add two more ideas of your own to this list, then choose the five most important ideas and number them 1 to 5 (with 1 for the most important).

The right person is somebody who...

· has a good job.

· is kind.

· is the same age as you.

· is clever.

· comes from a good family.

· works hard.

· laughs at the same things as you.

· is happy.

· thinks about other people.

· is loving.





京权图字：01-2013-7827

Published by arrangement with Oxford University Press for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom. This edition is for sale in the mainland of China only, excluding Hong Kong SAR, Macao SAR and Taiwan.

© Oxford University Press 2008

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

一千美金：英汉对照／（美）亨利（Henry, O.）著；（英）埃斯科特（Escott, J.）改写；（英）斯科特（Scott, S.）绘；杨雅琼，刘勋译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2014.2

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

One thousand dollars and other plays

ISBN 978-7-5135-4068-1

Ⅰ．①一…　Ⅱ．①亨…②埃…③斯…④杨…⑤刘…　Ⅲ．①英语－汉语－对照读物②短篇小说－小说集－美国－近代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2014）第029039号

出版人　　蔡剑峰

责任编辑　金　辉　许圆圆

执行编辑　蔡　颖

出版发行　外语教学与研究出版社

社　　址　北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

网　　址　http://www.fltrp.com

版　　次　2014年3月第1版

书　　号　ISBN 978-7-5135-4068-1

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


理查德·罗克韦尔的父亲是纽约最富有的人之一。他认为钱可以买到你想要的一切。钱的确是能买到大多数东西，但是，它能让年轻的理查德买到爱情吗？

博比·吉利恩遇到的是另外一个问题。他的叔叔在遗嘱里留给他一千美金，而他不知道该怎么花这笔钱。人们认为他只对姑娘、香槟酒和赌马感兴趣，但是也许对他来说还有更重要的东西。

对于托尔斯·钱德勒和玛莎小姐来说，金钱不如爱情重要。但是，他们都发现了一个悲哀的真理——说错话、做错事真是太容易了，他们也因此错失了获得爱情的良机。





ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS AND OTHER PLAYS


Richard Rockwell's father is one of the richest men in New York. He thinks that money can buy anything you want. It certainly helps with most things, but can it buy love for young Richard?

Bobby Gillian has a different problem. His uncle left him a thousand dollars in his will, and Bobby doesn't know what to spend it on. People think that he is only interested in girls, champagne, and betting on horses, but perhaps there is more to him than that.

For Towers Chandler and Miss Martha, money is less important than love. But they both discover the sad truth that it is only too easy to say or do the wrong thing, and lose their chance of love.





All That Money Can Buy


INTRODUCTION

A young man is in love with a beautiful girl. But can his rich father's money help him to marry her?

CHARACTERS IN THE PLAY

Anthony Rockwell, a rich man

Richard Rockwell, his son

Aunt Ellen, Anthony's sister and Richard's aunt

Miss Lantry, a beautiful young woman

Taxi driver

Kelly, a man who works for Anthony Rockwell

PERFORMANCE NOTES

Scene 1: A room at Anthony Rockwell's home, with a desk and two or three chairs

Scene 2: As Scene 1

Scene 3: As Scene 1

Scene 4: The inside of a taxi, with one long seat at the back, and a single seat at the front for the driver

Scene 5: In Anthony Rockwell's bedroom, a room with a bed, a cupboard and two chairs

Scene 6: As Scene 1

You will need a book, a cup, a glass, a ring, and a packet of sheets of paper (to look like money).

SCENE 1

A fine boy

A room at Anthony Rockwell's house in New York. He is sitting at his desk reading. His son, Richard, comes in.

RICHARD

You wanted to see me, father?

ANTHONY

Richard, what do you pay for your suits?

RICHARD

(Surprised) About sixty dollars, I think, Dad.

ANTHONY

You're a fine boy. Some young men pay more than a hundred dollars. You have more money than most of them, but you're careful.

RICHARD

(Sadly) Yes, Dad.

ANTHONY

Yes, you're a fine boy, and you can thank money for that. Money will do it every time.

Richard sits down in a chair. He looks sad.

RICHARD

There are some things that money can't do.

ANTHONY

Now don't say that. You can buy anything.

RICHARD

Your money can't buy me a way into older and better families than ours.

ANTHONY

(Angrily) Can't it? (Looking closely at Richard) There's something wrong. What is it?

RICHARD

Well, Dad...

ANTHONY

Tell me. I can get ten million dollars in twenty-four hours. I can have a boat ready to take you to the Bahamas in two days. Why aren't you happy?

'Why aren't you happy?'

RICHARD

Well... there's a girl...

ANTHONY

(Interested) What's her name? You've got money, and you're a nice young man. Take her for a walk, or a ride. Walk home with her from church.

RICHARD

You don't know her family. Every hour of her time is planned days before. I love her, but how can I tell her? I can't write down all the things that I want to say.

ANTHONY

Are you telling me that you can't get an hour or two of the girl's time? And with all the money I've got!

RICHARD

It's too late now. In two days she's going to Europe for two years. I'm going to see her alone tomorrow evening for seven or eight minutes.

ANTHONY

Seven or eight minutes!

RICHARD

She's staying in the country at her aunt's.

ANTHONY

Go and see her there!

RICHARD

I can't. But I'm meeting her at the station with a taxi tomorrow evening at 8.30. We'll drive to Wallack's Theatre. She's meeting her mother and some of her friends there.

ANTHONY

(Looking thoughtful) It won't take long to drive down Broadway to the theatre.

RICHARD

I know. Will I get time to tell her everything that I want to tell her? No. No, father, your money can't help me. It can't buy me one minute of time.

ANTHONY

All right, Richard, my boy. Go out with your friends now. You say that money can't buy time? Well, money can buy most things.

SCENE 2

True love is everything!

'True love is everything!'

The same room, that evening. Anthony Rockwell is talking to his sister, Ellen. They are sitting in chairs. Ellen has a cup of coffee. Anthony has a glass of something stronger.

ANTHONY

He says that ten million dollars can't buy a way into older and better families than ours, Ellen.

ELLEN

Anthony, you're always thinking about money. But money is nothing. True love is everything! Why didn't Richard speak to the girl earlier?

ANTHONY

I don't know.

ELLEN

How could a girl say no to a fine boy like him? And now there's no time. When does she go to Europe?

ANTHONY

The day after tomorrow.

ELLEN

Poor Richard! All your money cannot make him happy. Oh dear! Oh dear!

SCENE 3

The ring

The same room, the next evening. Richard is dressed to go out. Ellen is with him. She is giving him a ring.

ELLEN

Wear this ring tonight. Your mother gave it to me. She said that it brought good luck in love. 'Give it to Richard when he falls in love with a girl,' she told me.

Richard tries to put it on his smallest finger, but the ring is too small. He puts it in his coat pocket.

RICHARD

It's too small to wear, but I'll keep it safe.

ELLEN

Good luck, Richard.

RICHARD

Thank you, aunt.

SCENE 4

A lot of traffic

Richard and Miss Lantry are in the back of a taxi. The taxi driver is sitting in front.

MISS LANTRY

We must hurry. Mother doesn't like waiting.

RICHARD

(To the taxi driver) To Wallack's Theatre. As quickly as you can, driver!

TAXI DRIVER

Yes, sir. (He starts driving.)

RICHARD

I want to tell you –

MISS LANTRY

(Looking out of the taxi) Where are we?

RICHARD

What? Oh, we're turning from Forty-Second Street into Broadway. But I wanted to tell you –

MISS LANTRY

How long will it take to get to the theatre?

RICHARD

Seven or eight minutes. (He takes the ring from his pocket.) I want to show you – oh! (He drops the ring and it falls out of the taxi.) Driver, stop! Stop!

MISS LANTRY

What is it?

RICHARD

I've dropped a ring. It was my mother's. I must look for it. I don't want to lose it. It won't take a minute.

Richard gets out of the taxi and looks on the ground. Miss Lantry looks worriedly at her watch. The taxi driver is looking round him in surprise. Traffic noises are heard. After a minute, Richard comes back.

RICHARD

I've got it! On you go, driver.

'I've got it!'

TAXI DRIVER

Sorry, sir. But I can't.

MISS LANTRY

Why don't you drive on? We'll be late.

RICHARD

(Standing up in the taxi and looking round) has all the traffic in New York stopped around us? Where did it all come from?

TAXI DRIVER

I don't know, sir.

MISS LANTRY

Where are the police? Can't they help?

RICHARD

I'm very sorry. We can't go on, and it'll take an hour to move all this traffic away!

MISS LANTRY

Show me the ring. We can't help this. (Smiling) and I don't like theatres very much.

SCENE 5

True love

Anthony Rockwell's bedroom. He is sitting up in bed reading. There is a knock at the door.

ANTHONY

Who is it?

ELLEN

It's me.

ANTHONY

Come in, Ellen.

Ellen comes into the room. She looks excited.

ELLEN

She is going to marry our Richard!

Anthony smiles. He does not look surprised.

ANTHONY

Oh? Is that right?

Ellen sits down on a chair near the bed.

ELLEN

They had to stop on the way to the theatre. And what stopped them? Not your money! It was a little ring!

ANTHONY

(Still smiling) What happened? Tell me.

ELLEN

Richard dropped the ring in the street. He got out to find it, and suddenly there was traffic everywhere!

ANTHONY

How strange!

ELLEN

Yes! It was two hours before the taxi could move again! So he had time to tell her that he loved her.

ANTHONY

And they're going to marry, are they? Well, I'm happy to hear it.

ELLEN

Don't ever say 'Money can buy anything!' to me again, Anthony. Not after tonight. It isn't true. Money is nothing when you have true love.

SCENE 6

A good day's work

Next morning. Anthony is in his study. With him is Kelly.

ANTHONY

Thank you, Kelly. That was a good day's work. Now, what did I give you? Five thousand dollars?

KELLY

Yes, Mr Rockwell, and I paid out three hundred dollars of my own money. I got the taxis for five dollars, but the other drivers wanted ten dollars. But the police were the worst.

ANTHONY

Were they?

KELLY

Yes. They wanted fifty dollars. But everything went beautifully, Mr Rockwell. Everybody arrived at the right time. It was two hours before anybody moved!

Rockwell gives Kelly a packet, with money inside it.

ANTHONY

Here you are, Kelly. One thousand for your work, and your three hundred back. OK?

KELLY

Thank you.

ANTHONY

(Laughing) Thank you , Kelly. Money talks, right?

careful adj. not spending more money than you need to 花钱谨慎的

thoughtful adj. quiet and serious because you are thinking a lot 沉思的

dress v. to put on clothes 穿衣服

hurry v. to go somewhere more quickly than usual because there is not much time 匆忙而行，赶紧

sir n. a polite way to speak to a man who is more important than you 先生

钱能买到的一切


内容简介

一个年轻人爱上了一个美丽的姑娘，但是他那个富爸爸的钱能帮他娶到这个姑娘吗？

剧中人物

安东尼·罗克韦尔，一位有钱人

理查德·罗克韦尔，安东尼的儿子

埃伦姑姑，安东尼的姐姐与理查德的姑姑

兰特里小姐，一个美丽的年轻女人

出租车司机

凯利，为安东尼·罗克韦尔工作的男人

场景说明

第一场：安东尼·罗克韦尔家中的一个房间，内有一张桌子和两三把椅子

第二场：同第一场

第三场：同第一场

第四场：一辆出租车内，车后座是一个长椅，前座是司机的单人座椅

第五场：安东尼·罗克韦尔的卧室，内有一张床、一个橱柜和两把椅子

第六场：同第一场

需要准备一本书、一个茶杯、一个玻璃杯、一枚戒指和一包纸（当作钱）。

第一场

一个优秀的男孩

在安东尼·罗克韦尔纽约家中的一个房间内，安东尼正坐在书桌前看书。他的儿子理查德进来了。

理查德：

父亲，你要见我？

安东尼：

理查德，你为你的西服花了多少钱？

理查德：

（惊讶地） 我想大概六十美金吧，爸爸。

安东尼：

你是一个优秀的男孩。一些年轻人会花上百美金。你比他们大多数都要有钱，但你却很谨慎。

理查德：

（忧愁地） 是的，爸爸。

安东尼：

确实，你是一个优秀的男孩，这你得感谢钱。钱每次都能把事儿办成。

理查德坐在椅子上，看上去很忧愁。

理查德：

有些事情是钱办不成的。

安东尼：

你别这样说。任何东西你都能买到。

理查德：

你的钱没法儿给我买条路，让我进到历史比咱们家更悠久，家世比咱们家更好的人家里。

安东尼：

（生气地） 不能？（察看着理查德） 事情有些不对劲，怎么了？

理查德：

哦，爸爸……

安东尼：

说吧。我能在二十四小时内弄到一千万美金。我在两天内就能安排一条船，送你到巴哈马群岛。你为何不开心？

理查德：

哦……有一个女孩……

安东尼：

（感兴趣地） 她叫什么名字？你有钱，又是个讨人喜欢的年轻人。带她散散步或兜兜风，或从教堂出来后陪她走回家。

理查德：

你不了解她的家庭。她每个小时要做什么都是几天前就安排好的。我爱她，但是我怎样才能告诉她呢？我不能将所有要说的话都写下来。

安东尼：

你是在告诉我，那姑娘的时间你连一两个小时也得不到？即使花上我所有的钱！

理查德：

现在一切都太晚了。两天后，她就要去欧洲待上两年。明天晚上我会去见她，我们有七八分钟的时间独处。

安东尼：

就七八分钟！

理查德：

她现在待在乡下姑姑家里。

安东尼：

那就去那儿见她！

理查德：

我不行。但我明晚八点半会乘出租车去车站见她。我们会一起坐车去沃勒克剧院，她约了她妈妈和几个朋友在那儿碰面。

安东尼：

（若有所思地） 开车沿百老汇大道很快就到那家剧院了。

理查德：

我知道。我会有时间告诉她所有我想说的话吗？没有。不，父亲，你的钱帮不了我。我没法儿用钱买到一分钟时间。

安东尼：

好了，理查德，我的孩子。现在和你的朋友一起出去走走。你说钱不能买到时间？哼，钱能买到几乎所有东西。

第二场

真爱才是一切！

当天晚上，同一房间内。安东尼·罗克韦尔正在和他的姐姐埃伦交谈。他们坐在椅子上，埃伦在喝咖啡，安东尼在喝酒。

安东尼：

埃伦，他说一千万美金不能买条路，让他进入历史比咱们家还长，家世比咱们家还好的人家里。

埃伦：

安东尼，你总是想着钱。但钱算不上什么。真爱才是一切！为什么理查德不早点儿跟那个女孩表白呢？

安东尼：

我不知道。

埃伦：

怎么会有女孩拒绝像他那样优秀的男孩呢？现在为时已晚。那个女孩什么时候去欧洲？

安东尼：

后天。

埃伦：

可怜的理查德！你所有的钱都没法儿给他带来快乐。哦，天啊！哦，天啊！

第三场

戒指

第二天晚上，同一房间内。理查德穿好衣服准备出去。埃伦和他在一起，她将一枚戒指递给他。

埃伦：

今晚戴上这枚戒指。这是你母亲给我的，她说这枚戒指会给爱情带来好运，她告诉我：“当理查德爱上一个女孩时，就把戒指给他。”

理查德试着将戒指戴到小拇指上，不过戒指太小了，他把它放在外衣口袋里。

理查德：

它太小了，戴不上，但是我会好好保存的。

埃伦：

理查德，祝你好运。

理查德：

谢谢你，姑姑。

第四场

交通拥堵

理查德和兰特里小姐坐在出租车后排座椅上，司机坐在前面。

兰特里小姐：

我们得快点儿，我母亲不喜欢等。

理查德：

（对出租车司机说） 去沃勒克剧院。越快越好，司机！

出租车司机：

好的，先生。（他开车出发。）

理查德：

我想告诉你——

兰特里小姐：

（朝出租车外看） 我们到哪儿了？

理查德：

什么？哦，我们现在正从第四十二街拐到百老汇大道。但是我刚才想跟你说——

兰特里小姐：

到剧院还要多久？

理查德：

七八分钟吧。（他从口袋里取出戒指。） 我想给你看——啊！（他一失手，戒指掉到出租车外去了。） 司机，停车！停车！

兰特里小姐：

怎么了？

理查德：

我掉了一枚戒指。那是我母亲的遗物，我得找到它，我不想把它弄丢。耽误不了一分钟的。

理查德下了出租车，在地上寻找起来。兰特里小姐焦急地看着手表。出租车司机惊讶地四处张望，四周传来车流的喧嚣声。一分钟后，理查德回来了。

理查德：

我找到了！继续开车吧，司机。

出租车司机：

抱歉，先生。但是我开不了了。

兰特里小姐：

你为什么不继续开？我们要迟到了。

理查德：

（从座位上站起来四处张望） 是纽约所有的车都停在我们周围了吗？这些车都是从哪儿来的？

出租车司机：

我不知道，先生。

兰特里小姐：

警察在哪儿？他们不能帮忙吗？

理查德：

我很抱歉。我们不能继续往前开了。这样的交通状况得花上一小时才能恢复正常！

兰特里小姐：

把戒指给我看看吧，这种情况我们也无能为力。（微笑） 而且我也不是很喜欢剧院。

第五场

真爱

安东尼·罗克韦尔的卧室。他正坐在床上看书。有人敲门。

安东尼：

谁？

埃伦：

是我。

安东尼：

进来吧，埃伦。

埃伦走进房间。她看上去很兴奋。

埃伦：

她要嫁给我们的理查德了！

安东尼面露微笑，他看上去并不惊讶。

安东尼：

哦？是吗？

埃伦坐到床边的一张椅子上。

埃伦：

在去剧院的路上他们被迫停下了。你猜是什么让他们停下来的？不是你的钱！是一枚小小的戒指！

安东尼：

（仍在微笑） 发生什么事了？说来听听。

埃伦：

理查德把戒指掉在街上了。他下车找戒指，突然就堵车了！

安东尼：

多奇怪啊！

埃伦：

确实！两个小时后，出租车才能再次前进！所以他有时间对她表达了爱意。

安东尼：

他们要结婚了，是吧？嗯，我很高兴听到这个消息。

埃伦：

别再对我说什么“钱能买到一切！”了，安东尼。今晚以后别再说了，因为这话不对。有了真爱，钱就不算什么了。

第六场

干得真棒

第二天早上。安东尼在书房里，凯利和他在一起。

安东尼：

谢谢你，凯利。那活儿干得真棒。好了，我给了你多少？五千美金？

凯利：

是的，罗克韦尔先生。而且我自己还垫付了三百美金。我付给每个出租车司机五美金，但是其他车辆的司机就要十美金。不过，要的最多的是警察。

安东尼：

是吗？

凯利：

没错，他们要五十美金。但是一切都进行得漂漂亮亮的，罗克韦尔先生。所有人都准时赶到了。两个小时，谁都动不了！

罗克韦尔给了凯利一个小包，里面装着钱。

安东尼：

给你，凯利。一千美金的酬劳，再加上你垫付的三百美金。怎样？

凯利：

谢谢您。

安东尼：

（笑） 谢谢你 ，凯利。金钱是万能的，不是吗？





One Thousand Dollars


INTRODUCTION

A young man's uncle leaves him one thousand dollars in his will. What can the young man do with it?

CHARACTERS IN THE PLAY

Bobby Gillian, a young man

Mr Tolman, a lawyer

Mr Sharp, a lawyer

Miss Hayden, a pretty young woman

Miss Lotta Lauriere, a dancer

Bryson, a man of forty

Man at the theatre

PERFORMANCE NOTES

Scene 1: A lawyers' office, with a desk and two chairs

Scene 2: A restaurant, with tables and chairs

Scene 3: Theatre dressing room, with a dressing table, a clothes cupboard and a mirror

Scene 4: As Scene 1

Scene 5: The living room in Bobby's uncle's house, with a table and chair

Scene 6: As Scene 1

You will need a piece of paper that looks like a will, another piece of paper with writing on it, some writing paper, a pen, a packet of money, a book, and a cup.

SCENE 1

The will

In Tolman and Sharp's office. Mr Tolman is sitting behind his desk. He has just finished reading a will. Bobby Gillian is sitting the other side of the desk.

TOLMAN

Well, there you are. your uncle wrote his will a month or two before he died, and now I've read it to you. What do you think?

BOBBY

(Laughing) It's not going to be easy to spend a thousand dollars. Fifty dollars or fifty thousand would be easier. I'll have to ask a friend how to spend it.

TOLMAN

Did you listen carefully when I was reading the will? After spending the thousand dollars, you must tell me, in writing, how you spent it. Will you do that?

BOBBY

Yes, I'll do it, Mr Tolman.

TOLMAN

(Giving Bobby a packet) Then here's the money. One thousand dollars.

SCENE 2

A lot or very little

At a restaurant. Bryson is sitting at a table, drinking coffee and reading a book. Bobby sits down opposite him.

BOBBY

Hello there, Bryson! Put down your book, I've got a funny story to tell you!

BRYSON

Tell it to somebody at one of the other tables. You know I don't like your stories.

BOBBY

It's a good story. I've just come from my uncle Septimus's lawyers. He's died and left me one thousand dollars! What can I do with it?

BRYSON

I thought old man Gillian had half a million.

BOBBY

He did. He left most of it to the hospital that killed him! Isn't that funny? His secretary gets ten dollars, and I get a thousand.

BRYSON

You've always got plenty of money to spend.

BOBBY

Lots. Uncle Septimus was like Father Christmas to me.

BRYSON

Did he have any other family?

BOBBY

None. There is a Miss Hayden who lives in his house. She's a quiet little thing. The daughter of one of my uncle's friends. I forgot to say that she got ten dollars, too.

BRYSON

Did she?

BOBBY

Why didn't he leave me just ten dollars? Then I could spend it on two bottles of champagne and forget uncle Septimus and his money.

BRYSON

(Smiling) A thousand dollars can be a lot or very little. One man could buy a happy home with it and laugh at America's richest man.

BOBBY

That's true.

BRYSON

A thousand dollars could buy milk for one hundred babies this summer, and save fifty of their lives. It could send a clever boy to college.

BOBBY

Listen, Bryson. I asked you to tell me what I could do with a thousand dollars.

BRYSON

(Laughing) Go and buy a gold necklace for your favourite dancer, Lotta Lauriere. Then go and work on a farm. Work with sheep. I've never liked sheep.

BOBBY

The beautiful Lotta! Yes, you're right. I want to spend all the money on one thing. You see, I've got to write and say what I spent it on, and I don't like writing. Thanks, Bryson!

SCENE 3

A necklace for Lotta

Lotta Lauriere's dressing room at the theatre. She is getting ready. There is a knock at the door.

LOTTA

Who is it?

'Who is it?'

BOBBY

It's me. Bobby Gillian.

LOTTA

Come in, Bobby. (He comes in.) What is it, Bobby? I have to go and dance in two minutes.

BOBBY

Listen, Lotta. Would you like a pretty necklace? I can spend a thousand. What do you say to that?

LOTTA

(Laughing) Oh, you sweet man! It's true that I love pretty things. But...

BOBBY

Yes?

LOTTA

(Putting on a hat) Did you see the necklace that Della Stacey was wearing the other night? It cost more than two thousand dollars at Tiffany's.

BOBBY

Oh, did it?

There is a knock on the door. A man comes in.

MAN

Miss Lauriere, it's time!

LOTTA

Oh! I must go, Bobby!

Lotta leaves. The man waits for Bobby to leave.

BOBBY

What would you do with a thousand dollars?

MAN

Open a bar. I know a place that could make a lot of money. Are you thinking of putting some money into – ?

BOBBY

Oh, no. I only wanted to know.

MAN

Listen, this could make us both a lot of money.

BOBBY

Excuse me. I must go.

Bobby leaves the room.

MAN

And I thought it was my lucky day.

SCENE 4

Bobby asks a question

In Tolman and Sharp's office. Tolman is sitting at his desk. Bobby is standing the other side of Tolman's desk. The lawyer does not look pleased to see him.

TOLMAN

What do you want now, Mr Gillian?

BOBBY

Can I ask you a question? Did my uncle leave Miss Hayden more than the ten dollars?

TOLMAN

No, he didn't.

BOBBY

Thank you very much, sir.

TOLMAN

Is that all?

BOBBY

Yes, thank you. That's all I wanted to know.

SCENE 5

News for Miss Hayden

In Septimus Gillian's living room. Miss Hayden is sitting at a table, writing letters. She looks up when Bobby comes in.

BOBBY

I've just come from old Tolman's. They found a – what's the word? – a codicil to the will.

MISS HAYDEN

They did?

BOBBY

Dear old uncle left you some more money. A thousand dollars. Tolman asked me to bring it to you. here it is. (He puts the packet of money on the table .)

MISS HAYDEN

Oh! Oh!

BOBBY

I love you, Miss Hayden. Did you know that?

MISS HAYDEN

Oh! no. I am sorry.

BOBBY

Is there no hope for me?

'Is there no hope for me?'

MISS HAYDEN

I – no, I am sorry.

BOBBY

(Smiling) Can I write a note?

MISS HAYDEN

Of course. (She gives him a pen and some paper .) I – please, excuse me.

She leaves. Bobby writes a short note, then reads it.

BOBBY

(Reading) 'Paid to the best and dearest woman in the world, one thousand dollars. For all the happiness she brings to people.'

SCENE 6

Another fifty thousand!

In Tolman and Sharp's office. Tolman is sitting behind his desk when Bobby comes into the room.

BOBBY

I've spent the thousand dollars. and I've got a note to tell you what I spent it on.

He puts the note on Tolman's desk. Tolman gets up and goes to the door. He opens it.

TOLMAN

(Calling) Sharp! Come in here, please.

Sharp

(Coming into the room) Yes? (He looks at Bobby, then looks down at the note .) Oh. I understand.

He goes out of the room again. Tolman and Bobby wait silently. Sharp comes back with a piece of paper. The two lawyers read it and look at each other.

TOLMAN

Mr Gillian, there was a codicil to your uncle's will.

BOBBY

A codicil?

TOLMAN

We were told not to read it until you told us, in writing, how you spent the thousand dollars. You have now done this, so I will tell you what the codicil says.

BOBBY

Please do.

TOLMAN

Your uncle tells us in the codicil that we can give you another fifty thousand dollars –

BOBBY

(Very surprised) What!

TOLMAN

(Continuing) – If you have used the money to do some good for others. But...

BOBBY

But?

TOLMAN

If you have spent it carelessly or given it away to the wrong people –

BOBBY

(Laughing) As I usually do!

TOLMAN

Then the fifty thousand dollars must be paid to Miss Miriam Hayden. Now, Mr Gillian. Mr Sharp and I will read your note and find out –

Bobby quickly takes the note from the desk.

BOBBY

(Smiling) It's all right. There's no need to read it. I lost the thousand dollars betting on a horse at the races. Goodbye, Mr Tolman, Mr Sharp.

He leaves the office, happily singing a song.

TOLMAN

(Laughing) Are you surprised, Mr Sharp?

'Are you surprised, Mr Sharp?'

SHARP

(Shaking his head and smiling) No, Mr Tolman. Not surprised at all!

will n. a piece of paper that says who will have your money, house and other things when you die 遗嘱

lawyer n. someone whose job is to help people with the law 律师

champagne n. an expensive French wine with bubbles in it 香槟酒

necklace n. something pretty (and often expensive) that you wear around your neck 项链

pretty adj. beautiful, nice to look at 漂亮的，好看的

bar n. a place where you can buy and drink alcohol 酒吧

codicil n. something written after a will is already made, which gives more instructions about the money 遗嘱附书

bet v. If you bet on the result of a horse race, you pay money, saying which horse will win a race. If your horse wins, you win; if it loses, you lose. 打赌；下注

race n. a competition to see which horse can run the fastest 赛马

一千美金


内容简介

一个年轻人的叔叔在遗嘱里给他留下一千美金，这个年轻人能用这笔钱干什么呢？

剧中人物

博比·吉利恩，一个年轻人

托尔曼先生，一名律师

夏普先生，一名律师

海登小姐，一个漂亮的年轻女人

洛塔·洛里埃小姐，一名舞蹈演员

布赖森，一个四十岁的男人

剧院里的人

场景说明

第一场：律师事务所，有一张桌子和两把椅子

第二场：餐馆，有若干桌子和椅子

第三场：剧院化妆间，有一张化妆台、一个衣橱和一面镜子

第四场：同第一场

第五场：博比叔叔家的客厅，有一套桌椅

第六场：同第一场

需要一张纸当作遗嘱，另一张写了字的纸，一些书写纸、一支笔、一包钱、一本书和一个杯子。

第一场

遗嘱

在托尔曼和夏普的事务所。托尔曼先生坐在书桌后，他刚刚宣读完一份遗嘱。博比·吉利恩坐在书桌的另一边。

托尔曼：

嗯，就是这样。你叔叔在去世前一两个月写下了遗嘱，现在我已经向你宣读完了。你有什么想法？

博比：

（笑） 花掉一千美金可不是件容易的事儿。五十美金或五万美金倒还容易些。我得问问朋友怎么花掉这笔钱。

托尔曼：

我刚刚念遗嘱时，你仔细听了吗？在花完这一千美金后，你必须书面告知我你是如何花的。可以吗？

博比：

好的，我会的，托尔曼先生。

托尔曼：

（给博比一个小包） 那就拿上这笔钱吧，一千美金。

第二场

可多可少

在一家餐馆里。布赖森坐在桌前，边喝咖啡边看书。博比在他对面坐下。

博比：

你好哇，布赖森！放下你的书，我要告诉你一件有意思的事儿！

布赖森：

去告诉其他桌的什么人吧，你知道我不喜欢你的那些故事。

博比：

这可是个很棒的故事。我刚从我叔叔塞普蒂默斯的律师那儿回来。我叔叔死了，留给我一千美金！我能用这笔钱干什么呢？

布赖森：

我原以为吉利恩这个老头子有五十万美金呢。

博比：

他是有。他把大部分的钱留给弄死他的那家医院了！是不是很可笑？他的秘书得到了十美金，我得到了一千。

布赖森：

你总是有很多钱花的。

博比：

很多很多。塞普蒂默斯叔叔对我来说就像圣诞老人一样。

布赖森：

他还有其他家人吗？

博比：

没有了。只有一个住在他家里的海登小姐，一个安静的小姑娘。她是我叔叔一个朋友的女儿。我忘了说，她也得到了十美金。

布赖森：

是吗？

博比：

他怎么不给我只留十美金呢？那样我就可以用这钱买两瓶香槟酒，然后把塞普蒂默斯叔叔和他的钱给忘了。

布赖森：

（微笑） 一千美金可多可少。一个人可以用这钱买一个幸福的家，然后嘲笑美国最有钱的人。

博比：

这话不假。

布赖森：

一千美金可以在这个夏天给一百个婴儿买牛奶，拯救其中五十人的性命。这钱还可以把一个聪明的男孩送进大学。

博比：

听着，布赖森。我是叫你告诉我，我 可以用一千美金做什么。

布赖森：

（笑） 去买一条金项链给你最喜欢的舞蹈演员洛塔·洛里埃吧。然后去农场工作，去照看羊。我从来没喜欢过羊。

博比：

美丽的洛塔！对，你说得对。我想把所有的钱都花在一件事上。你看，我得写下我是怎么花这笔钱的，而我又不喜欢写东西。谢谢，布赖森！

第三场

给洛塔的项链

洛塔·洛里埃在剧院里的化妆间。她就要准备上场了。有人敲门。

洛塔：

是谁？

博比：

是我，博比·吉利恩。

洛塔：

进来，博比。（他走进来。） 怎么了，博比？我还有两分钟就要去跳舞了。

博比：

听着，洛塔。你想要一条漂亮的项链吗？我手头有一千美金可以花，你觉得怎样？

洛塔：

（笑） 哦，你真好！我确实喜欢漂亮的东西。不过……

博比：

怎么？

洛塔：

（戴上帽子） 你看到德拉·斯泰茜前几天晚上戴的项链了吗？那是在蒂芙尼买的，花了两千多美金呢。

博比：

哦，是吗？

有人敲门。一名男子走进来。

男子：

洛里埃小姐，时间到了！

洛塔：

哦！我得走了，博比！

洛塔离开了。男子等博比离开。

博比：

你 会用一千美金干什么？

男子：

开一家酒吧。我知道有个地方可以赚很多钱。你是不是正在考虑投些钱进——

博比：

哦，不。我只是想了解一下。

男子：

听着，这可以让咱们俩都赚大钱。

博比：

对不起，我得走了。

博比离开了房间。

男子：

我还以为今天走运了呢。

第四场

博比提了一个问题

在托尔曼和夏普的事务所。托尔曼坐在桌旁，博比站在托尔曼桌子的另一边，律师看上去不太乐意见到他。

托尔曼：

有什么事，吉利恩先生？

博比：

我能问你一个问题吗？我叔叔留给海登小姐的是不是不只那十美金？

托尔曼：

不，他没留别的。

博比：

非常感谢您，先生。

托尔曼：

问完了？

博比：

是的，谢谢。我想知道的就这么多。

第五场

给海登小姐的消息

在塞普蒂默斯·吉利恩的客厅。海登小姐坐在桌旁写信。博比走进来，她抬起头。

博比：

我刚从老托尔曼那儿过来。他们找到一份——那个叫什么来着？——一份遗嘱附书。

海登小姐：

是吗？

博比：

亲爱的叔叔给你留了一些额外的钱，一千美金。托尔曼叫我把这钱带给你，拿着。（他把那包钱放在桌子上。）

海登小姐：

啊！啊！

博比：

我爱你，海登小姐。你知道吗？

海登小姐：

噢！不。我很抱歉。

博比：

我就没一点儿希望吗？

海登小姐：

我——不，我很抱歉。

博比：

（微笑） 我能写个便条吗？

海登小姐：

当然。（她给他一支笔和几张纸。） 我——请原谅我。

她离开了。博比写了一个简短的便条，然后读了一遍。

博比：

（读） “付给世界上最好、最亲爱的女人一千美金，以回报她带给人们的快乐。”

第六场

另外的五万

在托尔曼和夏普的事务所。托尔曼坐在桌子后面，博比走进房间。

博比：

我把一千美金花完了。我写了一张便条，告诉你我是怎么花的。

他将便条放在托尔曼的桌子上。托尔曼站起来走到门前，他打开门。

托尔曼：

（叫） 夏普！请过来一下。

夏普：

（走进房间） 怎么了？（他看看博比，然后低头看看便条。） 哦，我明白了。

他又走出房间。托尔曼和博比静静地等待着。夏普拿着一张纸回来了。两名律师看了看纸上写的内容，对视了一眼。

托尔曼：

吉利恩先生，你叔叔的遗嘱有一份附书。

博比：

附书？

托尔曼：

他跟我们说，在你向我们书面汇报如何花掉那一千美金之前，不得宣读这份附书。现在你已经做到了，所以我要告诉你这份附书的内容。

博比：

请吧。

托尔曼：

你叔叔在附书中说，我们可以再给你五万美金——

博比：

（非常惊讶） 什么！

托尔曼：

（继续） ——如果你把那笔钱用来为别人做好事。但是……

博比：

但是？

托尔曼：

如果你随便将钱花掉了，或者把它给了错误的人——

博比：

（笑） 就像我经常干的那样！

托尔曼：

那么这五万美金就必须付给米丽娅姆·海登小姐了。现在，吉利恩先生，夏普先生和我将看看你的便条，弄清楚——

博比迅速从桌子上拿走了便条。

博比：

（微笑） 好了，没必要看了。我把一千美金用来赌马输掉了。再见，托尔曼先生，夏普先生。

他离开了事务所，愉快地哼起了歌。

托尔曼：

（笑） 你觉得意外吗，夏普先生？

夏普：

（摇头微笑） 不，托尔曼先生。一点儿也不意外！





A Night Out


INTRODUCTION

Once every ten weeks, office worker Towers Chandler dresses like a man with a million dollars, goes to one of the best restaurants in New York, and eats the most expensive food. One evening, he meets a girl...

CHARACTERS IN THE PLAY

Towers Chandler, an office worker

Marian, a pretty young girl

Sissie, Marian's sister

Marie, a servant

Jeff White, an office worker

Mrs Black, whose house Chandler and White live in Waiter

Four other people in the restaurant

PERFORMANCE NOTES

Scene 1: The doorway of a house

Scene 2: A street corner in New York

Scene 3: A restaurant, with three tables and six chairs, two chairs at each table

Scene 4: Marian's bedroom, with a bed, and other bedroom furniture

You will need coffee, cups, plates, some food and some wine for the other people in the restaurant.

SCENE 1

One dollar a week

The doorway of the house where Chandler has a room. He is dressed in his best clothes, ready for his evening out. He is going out as his friend, Jeff White, comes in.

WHITE

What are you doing this evening, Towers?

CHANDLER

(Smiling) Tonight I'm going to live like a man with a million dollars!

WHITE

What are you talking about? You haven't got a million dollars!

CHANDLER

How much money are you and I paid each week, Jeff?

WHITE

Eighteen dollars. Why?

CHANDLER

And how much of that eighteen dollars do you spend each week?

WHITE

All of it, of course.

CHANDLER

Well, I don't. Each week I save one dollar out of my eighteen. Then, every ten weeks, I can buy myself an evening to remember.

WHITE

What do you do?

CHANDLER

I put on my finest clothes, go to one of the best restaurants in New York, eat the most expensive food on the menu, drink the best wine, then take a taxi home!

WHITE

(Very surprised) Why?

CHANDLER

Why? Because it makes me feel wonderful to sit with some of the richest people in America, and to make them think that I'm rich, too.

WHITE

You're crazy!

CHANDLER

(Laughing) Perhaps I am!

Mrs Black comes in.

MRS BLACK

Ah, Mr Chandler. I wanted to see you.

CHANDLER

Good evening, Mrs Black. What a lovely evening.

MRS BLACK

Lovely evening perhaps, but you haven't paid me for your room this month. When am I going to get the money?

CHANDLER

Soon, Mrs Black. Very soon.

Mrs Black looks at Chandler's clothes.

MRS BLACK

You can spend money on expensive clothes, but you can't pay for your room. Is that right?

CHANDLER

(Hurrying away) Goodnight, Mrs Black!

SCENE 2

A pretty girl

A street in New York. Chandler is walking along the street when a girl, Marian, comes round the corner. She is wearing an old hat and a cheap-looking coat. She is moving quickly, walks into Chandler, and falls down.

MARIAN

Oh!

CHANDLER

Oh, dear!

Chandler helps her to get up. She has hurt her foot.

MARIAN

My foot! I've hurt my foot.

CHANDLER

Can you walk?

'Can you walk?'

MARIAN

I – I think I can.

She tries to walk, but her foot hurts too much.

MARIAN

Oh! Perhaps –

CHANDLER

I'll call a taxi to take you home.

MARIAN

No, please. I'll be all right in a minute.

Chandler looks at her carefully for the first time, and likes what he sees.

CHANDLER

Your foot needs a longer rest, I think.

MARIAN

Perhaps you're right.

CHANDLER

I was on my way to eat by myself. Why don't you come with me? We'll have dinner together, and by then your foot will carry you home very nicely.

MARIAN

But we don't know each other...

CHANDLER

I'm Towers Chandler. Now that you know my name, come and have dinner. Then I'll say goodbye, or take you home if you prefer.

MARIAN

But my clothes! They aren't –

CHANDLER

I'm sure that you look prettier in them than anyone we shall see in the most expensive restaurant.

MARIAN

Well... my foot does hurt. all right, Mr Chandler, I'll come. You can call me... Miss Marian.

SCENE 3

Chandler tells a story

Chandler and Marian are sitting at a restaurant table. A waiter is giving them coffee. There are two other tables near them. The people sitting at them are dressed expensively and are talking quietly while eating.

MARIAN

That was a very good dinner. Thank you, Mr Chandler. Tell me, what do you do?

CHANDLER

(Laughing) Do? I ride my horses, go dancing, travel to Europe. And then there's my boat.

MARIAN

Haven't you got any work to do? Something more – well, interesting?

CHANDLER

My dear Miss Marian, there's no time for work! Think of dressing every day for dinner, and of calling at the houses of six or seven friends every afternoon or evening.

MARIAN

Yes – well –

CHANDLER

Oh yes, we 'do-nothings' are the hardest workers in the country!

MARIAN

(Sadly) I see. Well, thank you for a nice time. I must go home now. My foot is much better. I can walk home. There's no need for you to come with me.

CHANDLER

Oh. Well, goodbye, Miss Marian.

She gets up from the table and walks away. Chandler watches her, sadly.

CHANDLER

(Talking to himself) What a wonderful girl! A shop girl, perhaps? Why didn't I tell her the true story of my life? Perhaps then... well, it's too late now. Oh, how stupid I am!

SCENE 4

The right man for Marian

In Marian's bedroom. She is with her sister, Sissie. Both girls are sitting on the bed, talking excitedly.

SISSIE

It's two hours since you ran out in that old coat and hat. Mother has been very worried. She sent Louis in the car to find you. you are a bad girl!

Marie comes into the room.

SISSIE

Ah, there you are, Marie. Tell mother that Miss Marian is home again.

MARIE

Yes, miss. (She leaves the room .)

MARIAN

I only ran down to my dressmaker's to tell her to use blue on my new dress instead of red. Marie's old hat and coat were just what I needed.

SISSIE

You're crazy!

MARIAN

(Laughing) Everyone thought that I was a shop girl! It was wonderful!

SISSIE

Dinner is finished. You're very late.

MARIAN

I know. I fell and hurt my foot. I couldn't walk, so I went to a restaurant and sat there until I was better. (She gets up from the bed and walks to the window. She looks down into the street below .) We'll have to marry one day, Sissie.

SISSIE

Yes, that's true.

MARIAN

We're rich, and mother and father will want us to marry somebody who is as rich as we are. But can I love a man like that?

SISSIE

Who could you love?

MARIAN

I could love a man with kind blue eyes, who doesn't try to make love to every girl he sees. But I could only love him if he has some important work to do in the world. Then it doesn't matter how poor he is.

'I could love a man with kind blue eyes.'

SISSIE

You are crazy!

MARIAN

Perhaps. But, sister dear, we only meet men who ride their horses and go dancing. I couldn't love a man like that, even if his eyes are blue and he's kind to poor girls who meet him in the street.

wine n. a strong drink made of grapes 葡萄酒

crazy adj. mad, stupid 疯狂的；不明智的

waiter n. somebody who brings your food or drink in a restaurant（餐厅）男服务员，男侍应生

外出的一晚


内容简介

每隔十周，办公室职员托尔斯·钱德勒就会打扮成一名百万富翁的样子，去纽约最好的餐厅之一，吃最昂贵的食物。有一天晚上，他遇见了一个姑娘……

剧中人物

托尔斯·钱德勒，一个办公室职员

玛丽安，一个漂亮的年轻女孩

茜茜，玛丽安的姐姐

玛丽，一名仆人

杰夫·怀特，一个办公室职员

布莱克太太，钱德勒和怀特的房东

服务员

餐厅里的其他四个人

场景说明

第一场：一所房子的门厅

第二场：纽约街头一角

第三场：一家餐厅，有三张桌子和六把椅子，每张桌子配两把椅子

第四场：玛丽安的卧室，有一张床和其他卧室家具

需要咖啡、杯子、盘子、一些食物和一些酒提供给餐厅里的其他人。

第一场

一周一美金

房子的门厅。钱德勒住在这所房子中的一个房间里。他穿着自己最体面的衣服，准备晚上外出。他正要出去，他的朋友杰夫·怀特进来了。

怀特：

你今晚要干什么去，托尔斯？

钱德勒：

（微笑） 今晚我打算过过百万富翁的生活！

怀特：

你在说什么呢？你又没有一百万美金！

钱德勒：

咱们每周赚多少钱，杰夫？

怀特：

十八美金。怎么了？

钱德勒：

那每周你花掉那当中的多少？

怀特：

当然是全部花光了。

钱德勒：

哦，我可没有。我每周会从我那十八美金里省出一美金来。然后，每十个星期，我就能给自己买一个难忘的夜晚。

怀特：

你都做些什么呢？

钱德勒：

我穿上自己最好的衣服，去纽约最好的餐厅之一，点菜单上最贵的食物，喝那儿最好的葡萄酒，然后坐出租车回家！

怀特：

（非常吃惊） 为什么？

钱德勒：

为什么？因为跟纽约最有钱的人坐在一起，让他们认为我也很富有，这感觉太棒了。

怀特：

你疯了！

钱德勒：

（笑） 也许是吧！

布莱克太太进来了。

布莱克太太：

哦，钱德勒先生，我正好想见你。

钱德勒：

晚上好，布莱克太太。多么美好的夜晚啊。

布莱克太太：

这夜晚也许很美好，但是你还没给我这个月的房租呢。我什么时候能拿到钱？

钱德勒：

快了，布莱克太太，很快。

布莱克太太看着钱德勒的衣服。

布莱克太太：

你有钱买昂贵的衣服，但是没钱付房租，是这样吗？

钱德勒：

（快速跑远） 晚安，布莱克太太！

第二场

一个漂亮姑娘

纽约的一条街。钱德勒正沿着街道走，这时，一个叫玛丽安的女孩从街角走来。她戴着一顶旧帽子，穿着一件看上去很廉价的外套。她走得很快，撞到了钱德勒，摔倒在地。

玛丽安：

啊！

钱德勒：

哦，天呐！

钱德勒扶她站起来。她伤到了脚。

玛丽安：

我的脚！我伤到脚了。

钱德勒：

你能走吗？

玛丽安：

我——我想可以。

她试着走，但她的脚疼得太厉害了。

玛丽安：

啊！也许——

钱德勒：

我叫辆出租车送你回家吧。

玛丽安：

不用麻烦了，我马上就好。

钱德勒第一次仔细打量她，并对自己的所见颇感欣喜。

钱德勒：

我觉得你的脚需要再休息会儿。

玛丽安：

也许你说得对。

钱德勒：

我正准备一个人去吃饭，你干吗不和我一起去呢？我们一起用晚餐，之后你的脚应该能轻松带你回家了。

玛丽安：

但是我们素不相识……

钱德勒：

我叫托尔斯·钱德勒。现在你知道我的名字了，就与我共进晚餐吧。然后我会跟你道别，或送你回家——随你的意愿。

玛丽安：

可是我这一身衣服！太不——

钱德勒：

我肯定你穿着这身衣服比最高级的餐厅里的任何人都要漂亮。

玛丽安：

嗯……我的脚确实很痛。好吧，钱德勒先生，我跟你去吧。你可以叫我……玛丽安小姐。

第三场

钱德勒讲了一个故事

钱德勒和玛丽安坐在餐厅的桌子旁，一名服务生正给他们上咖啡。他们旁边另有两张桌子。坐在那两桌的人衣着华贵，边吃饭边轻声交谈着。

玛丽安：

晚餐很棒。谢谢你，钱德勒先生。跟我说说吧，你是做什么工作的？

钱德勒：

（笑） 工作？我骑马、跳舞、去欧洲旅行，我还有一条船。

玛丽安：

你没有工作吗？一些更——嗯，有意思的事情？

钱德勒：

我亲爱的玛丽安小姐，我没时间工作！想想吧，每天穿戴好了去用餐，每天下午或晚上还要去六七个朋友家里拜访。

玛丽安：

是啊——哦——

钱德勒：

就是啊，我们这些“无所事事的人”是这个国家最辛苦的人呢！

玛丽安：

（忧伤地） 我明白了。嗯，谢谢你，和你吃饭聊天很开心。我现在要回家了，我的脚好多了，可以走回家，你不用送我。

钱德勒：

哦，好吧。再见，玛丽安小姐。

她从桌边站起身，走开了。钱德勒忧伤地注视着她。

钱德勒：

（自言自语） 多么好的姑娘！也许是个商店店员？我为什么不告诉她我的真实情况呢？也许那样……唉，现在太迟了。啊，我真是太蠢了！

第四场

玛丽安的真命天子

在玛丽安的卧室。玛丽安和姐姐茜茜在一起。两个姑娘坐在床上，兴奋地交谈着。

茜茜：

你穿着那身旧衣帽出去了两个小时。母亲很担心，她派路易斯开车找你去了。你真是 个坏女孩！

玛丽走进房间。

茜茜：

哦，你来了，玛丽。告诉母亲，玛丽安小姐已经回来了。

玛丽：

好的，小姐。（她离开了房间。）

玛丽安：

我只不过是跑到裁缝那里去告诉她，我的新裙子上要用蓝色而不是红色。玛丽的旧帽子和旧外套正符合我的需要。

茜茜：

你真傻！

玛丽安：

（笑） 所有人都以为我是个女店员！太棒了！

茜茜：

晚饭已经吃完了，你回来得太晚了。

玛丽安：

我知道。我摔倒了，伤了脚。我走不了路，就到一家餐厅里坐了会儿，直到我觉得好了些。（她从床上起来，走到窗户旁边，看着下面的街道。） 我们总有一天得嫁人，茜茜。

茜茜：

是的，不错。

玛丽安：

我们很有钱，而母亲和父亲会想让我们嫁给跟我们一样富有的人。但是我能够爱上 一个那样的人吗？

茜茜：

那你会爱上什么样的人？

玛丽安：

我会爱上一个有着和善的蓝眼睛的人，他不会试图追求他见到的每一个女孩。但是他一定要有一份实实在在并真正重要的工作，我才会爱上他。那样的话，我不在乎他有多穷。

茜茜：

你的确 太傻了！

玛丽安：

也许吧。但是，亲爱的姐姐，我们只会遇见成天骑马、跳舞的男人。我没法爱上那样的男人，即便他的双眼是蓝色的，而且对在街上遇到的穷女孩很和善。





Two Loaves of Bread


INTRODUCTION

Who is the man who comes into Miss Martha's shop? Why does he buy two loaves of stale bread each time he comes? Miss Martha is very interested in him.

CHARACTERS IN THE PLAY

Miss Martha, a woman who sells bread and cakes in her shop

Blumberger, a man who comes into the shop for bread

Kelton, a man who works with Blumberger

Mrs Annie Green, Miss Martha's friend

Mrs Green's friend, a woman

A man in the shop

A woman in the shop

PERFORMANCE NOTES

Each of the four scenes happens in the shop. you will need four loaves of bread, some cakes, two packets of butter, a knife to cut bread, a painting, and some paper bags.

SCENE 1

The man who buys stale bread

Inside the baker's shop. Miss Martha is standing behind the counter, talking to her friend, Mrs Annie Green.

MISS MARTHA

He comes in two or three times a week, and he always buys two loaves of stale bread.

MRS GREEN

Stale bread?

MISS MARTHA

Always stale bread, never fresh bread. Of course, fresh bread is five cents a loaf, stale bread is five cents for two loaves.

MRS GREEN

And you think he's poor?

MISS MARTHA

Oh, yes, he is, Annie, I'm sure. One day I saw some red and brown paint on his fingers. 'He's a painter,' I said to myself.

MRS GREEN

Well, we all know that painters are very often poor. But can you be sure that he's a painter? Just because he has paint on his fingers...

Miss Martha takes a painting out from under the counter.

MISS MARTHA

I'm going to put this on my wall. If he's a painter, he'll see it and say something about it.

MRS GREEN

(Laughing) Very clever, Martha. But tell me, are you a little in love with this man?

MISS MARTHA

Annie! (Laughing) Well, perhaps a little.

SCENE 2

The painting on the wall

In the shop, the next day. The painting is now on the wall behind the counter. Miss Martha is putting some bread and some cakes into a man's bag. He gives her some money, then goes out of the shop. Mr Blumberger comes into the shop. His clothes are poor but tidy.

BLUMBERGER

Good morning. Two loaves of stale bread, please.

MISS MARTHA

(Smiling) Good morning.

She puts two loaves of bread into paper bags. While she is doing this, Blumberger is looking at the picture on the wall.

BLUMBERGER

That is a fine picture.

MISS MARTHA

Is it? I do love... paintings. Is this a good picture, do you think?

BLUMBERGER

The colour's good but the lines are not right. Good morning.

He takes the bread and leaves the shop. As he leaves, Mrs Green enters with a friend.

MRS GREEN

(Excited) Is that him?

MISS MARTHA

Yes!

MRS GREEN

(To her friend) That's the man! you know, I was telling you about him. (To Miss Martha) did he see the painting?

MISS MARTHA

Yes! He knew at once that it was a good painting. Oh, what kind eyes he's got!

FRIEND

And he only eats stale bread?

MISS MARTHA

Yes. He must be very poor. And he looks so thin. Oh, I do want to help him.

MRS GREEN

(Laughing) You want to marry him!

FRIEND

Where does he live?

MISS MARTHA

I don't know. Some poor room somewhere. But if we marry...

'But if we marry...'

MRS GREEN

He can come and live here, with you, over the shop! Stop dreaming, Martha!

FRIEND

What's wrong with dreaming? Sometimes dreams come true.

MISS MARTHA

That's right! They do!

SCENE 3

Miss Martha tries to help

Two days later. A man and a woman are in the shop. The woman is looking at the cakes, trying to decide what to have. Miss Martha is putting some butter into a bag for the man. She is now wearing her best clothes, and her hair looks different.

WOMAN

Now, what shall I have?

MAN

(To Miss Martha) Thank you. Good morning.

He leaves the shop with the bag.

MISS MARTHA

(To the woman) have you decided?

WOMAN

No, I –

She stops speaking as Blumberger comes into the shop.

MISS MARTHA

(To Blumberger) Good morning.

BLUMBERGER

Good morning. Two stale loaves, please.

MISS MARTHA

(Smiling) How are you today?

BLUMBERGER

I'm very well –

We hear an ambulance going past outside. Blumberger and the woman both go to the shop door to look out. Miss Martha quickly cuts into each of the stale loaves, and puts some butter in them. She puts the loaves into paper bags. Blumberger and the woman come back to the counter. Blumberger pays Miss Martha. The woman goes back to look at the cakes.

BLUMBERGER

Thank you. Goodbye.

MISS MARTHA

Goodbye.

WOMAN

Now, what cakes shall I buy?

SCENE 4

A terrible mistake

Later that day. Miss Martha is in the shop with Mrs Green. .

MRS GREEN

So what did you do?

MISS MARTHA

I put some butter in the bread! He didn't see me, of course. He was busy watching the ambulance. I had to be very quick.

MRS GREEN

How kind you are, Martha.

MISS MARTHA

I can't let him eat only stale bread, Annie. He needs some good food, poor man.

MRS GREEN

What will he say when he sees the butter? He'll know it was you who put it there.

MISS MARTHA

(Smiling) Yes, he will. (She suddenly looks worried .) Do you think that he'll be angry?.

MRS GREEN

No, of course not. Not if he's hungry. But I must go. I'll see you tomorrow, Martha.

MISS MARTHA

Goodbye, Annie.

Mrs Green leaves the shop. Martha begins moving one or two things, making the shop tidy. Then she sits down behind the counter and starts to read a book. Suddenly the door opens, and Blumberger and Kelton come in.

Blumberger is angry, but Kelton is trying to hold him back.

BLUMBERGER

(Shouting at Martha) You stupid woman!

KELTON

Wait! Blumberger!

BLUMBERGER

You stupid, stupid woman! Do you know what you've done? You've ruined my work!

'You've ruined my work!'

KELTON

Come on! You've said enough! It was an accident, I'm sure.

Kelton pulls Blumberger out of the shop. After a minute, Kelton comes back again.

MISS MARTHA

What's wrong with him?

KELTON

That's Blumberger. He's an architect. We work together, in the same office.

MISS MARTHA

But what did I do wrong?

KELTON

He's worked hard for three months now, on a plan for the new city hospital. It was a competition, and Blumberger was sure that he was going to win it.

MISS MARTHA

But... why – ?

KELTON

I'm telling you, miss. You see, he finished putting in the ink lines yesterday. When it's finished, he always rubs out the pencil lines with stale bread.

MISS MARTHA

So that's why he wanted the stale bread!

KELTON

Well, today – well, you know, that butter got right into the bread and when he tried to rub out the pencil lines – well, Blumberger's plan is ruined now, miss.

Kelton turns and leaves the shop. Miss Martha puts her head into her hands and starts to cry.

stale adj. old and dry, not fresh 陈旧的；不新鲜的

counter n. a kind of narrow table in a shop where you go to pay for something you buy （商店的）柜台

loaf n. a big piece of bread （一）条（面包）

fresh adj . (of food) recently made and good to eat （食物）新鲜的

paint n . coloured liquid used to make pictures （绘画用的）颜料

painting n . a picture 画作

line n. a long thin mark on a piece of paper, the ground, or another surface 线条

dream v. to hope for something good in the future 做梦；梦想

butter n. soft yellow food that is made from milk 黄油

ruin v. to spoil or damage something so that it is no longer any good 毁坏，破坏，摧毁

architect n. someone whose job is to plan new buildings 建筑师

competition n. a test in which people try to do better than each other 竞赛，比赛

ink n. coloured liquid used for writing, and sometimes for making pictures or plans 墨水

rub out to take off something that is written on paper 把（字迹、图等）擦掉

两条面包


内容简介

那个进入玛莎小姐的商店的男人是谁？为什么他每次来都会买两条陈面包？玛莎小姐对他很感兴趣。

剧中人物

玛莎小姐，一个开店卖面包和蛋糕的女人

布卢姆贝格尔，一个来商店买面包的男人

凯尔顿，与布卢姆贝格尔一起工作的男人

安妮·格林太太，玛莎小姐的朋友

格林太太的朋友，一个女人

商店里的一个男人

商店里的一个女人

场景说明

以下四场均发生在一家商店里。需要四条面包、一些蛋糕、两包黄油、一把切面包的刀、一幅画和几个纸袋子。

第一场

买陈面包的男人

面包店里。玛莎小姐正站在柜台后面，和她的朋友安妮·格林太太交谈。

玛莎小姐：

他每周来两三次，每次都是买两条陈面包。

格林太太：

陈 面包？

玛莎小姐：

总是陈面包，从来没买过新鲜的。当然，新鲜面包是五分钱一条，陈面包是五分钱两 条。

格林太太：

那你认为他很穷？

玛莎小姐：

哦，是的，他很穷。安妮，这我能肯定。有一天，我看到他手指上有些红色和棕色的颜料。“他是个画家。”我对自己说。

格林太太：

嗯，我们都明白画家一般都是很穷的。但是你能肯定他就是个画家吗？就因为他手指上有些颜料……

玛莎小姐从柜台下取出一幅画。

玛莎小姐：

我打算把这幅画挂在墙上。如果他是个画家，他会注意到，然后说些什么的。

格林太太：

（笑） 很聪明嘛，玛莎。但是告诉我，你是不是有点儿爱上这个男人啦？

玛莎太太：

安妮！（笑） 嗯，也许有点儿吧。

第二场

墙上的画

第二天，面包店里。现在那幅画挂在了柜台后面的墙上。玛莎小姐正在将一些面包和蛋糕装进一名男子的袋子里。男子给了她一些钱，然后走出了商店。布卢姆贝格尔先生走进面包店。他的衣服质地很差，但是很整洁。

布卢姆贝格尔：

早上好，请给我两条陈面包。

玛莎小姐：

（微笑） 早上好。

她将两条面包装进纸袋里。在她做这些的时候，布卢姆贝格尔看着墙上的画。

布卢姆贝格尔：

那幅画不错。

玛莎小姐：

是吗？我确实喜欢……画。你认为这是一幅好画吗？

布卢姆贝格尔：

色彩很好，但是线条不对。再见。

他拿上面包，离开了商店。他走时，格林太太和一个朋友走了进来。

格林太太：

（兴奋地） 那就是他吗？

玛莎小姐：

是的！

格林太太：

（对她的朋友） 就是那个男人！你知道的，我跟你说过他的事。（对玛莎小姐） 他看到这幅画了吗？

玛莎小姐：

看到了！他立刻就看出来这是一幅好画。哦，他的目光多么和善啊！

朋友：

那他只吃陈面包？

玛莎小姐：

是的。他肯定是很穷，他看上去这么瘦。哦，我真的想帮帮他。

格林太太：

（笑） 你想嫁给他吧！

朋友：

他住在哪里？

玛莎小姐：

我不知道，哪里的贫民屋吧。但是如果我们结婚了……

格林太太：

他就能搬过来住在这里，和你一起住在面包店的上面！别做梦了，玛莎！

朋友：

做梦有什么不对？有时美梦会成真的。

玛莎小姐：

没错！会成真的！

第三场

玛莎小姐试图帮忙

两天后。一男一女在面包店里。女人在看蛋糕，琢磨着买哪种。玛莎小姐正将一些黄油装进袋子里给这个男人。她现在穿着自己最好的衣服，发型看起来也不一样。

女人：

好了，我应该挑哪种呢？

男人：

（对玛莎小姐） 谢谢你。再见。

他拿着袋子离开了。

玛莎小姐：

（对女人） 您决定了吗？

女人：

不，我——

布卢姆贝格尔走进商店，女人不再说话。

玛莎小姐：

（对布卢姆贝格尔） 早上好。

布卢姆贝格尔：

早上好。请给我两条陈面包。

玛莎小姐：

（微笑） 你今天好吗？

布卢姆贝格尔：

我很好——

传来救护车经过的声音。布卢姆贝格尔和那个女人都走到门口向外张望。玛莎小姐迅速把两条陈面包切开，各放进一些黄油，然后她将面包放进纸袋。布卢姆贝格尔和那个女人回到柜台。布卢姆贝格尔付钱给玛莎小姐。那个女人回去继续选蛋糕。

布卢姆贝格尔：

谢谢你，再见。

玛莎小姐：

再见。

女人：

好了，我应该买什么蛋糕呢？

第四场

一个可怕的错误

同日的晚些时候。玛莎小姐和格林太太一起在店里。

格林太太：

那么你干了什么呢？

玛莎小姐：

我在面包里放了些黄油！当然了，他没看见。他当时正忙着看救护车呢。我得迅速行动。

格林太太：

你心肠真好，玛莎。

玛莎小姐：

我不能让他光吃陈面包，安妮。他需要吃些好东西，可怜的人。

格林太太：

他看见黄油的时候会说些什么呢？他会知道是你放进去的。

玛莎小姐：

（微笑） 是的，他会的。（她突然看上去很担心。） 你觉得他会生气吗？

格林太太：

不，当然不会了，如果他饿的话就不会。不过我得走了。明天见，玛莎。

玛莎小姐：

再见，安妮。

格林太太离开了面包店。玛莎开始挪动一两样东西，收拾店铺。接着她在柜台后面坐下来，开始看书。突然门开了，布卢姆贝格尔和凯尔顿走进来。布卢姆贝格尔怒气冲冲，而凯尔顿在奋力拉住他。

布卢姆贝格尔：

（冲玛莎喊） 你这个蠢女人！

凯尔顿：

等等！布卢姆贝格尔！

布卢姆贝格尔：

你这个蠢得要命的女人！你知道自己干了什么吗？你毁了我的作品！

凯尔顿：

好了！不要再说了！我肯定这是个意外。

凯尔顿将布卢姆贝格尔拉出了面包店。过了一会儿，凯尔顿回到店里。

玛莎小姐：

他怎么了？

凯尔顿：

那是布卢姆贝格尔。他是个建筑师。我们在同一个办公室一起工作。

玛莎小姐：

可是我做错了什么？

凯尔顿：

他为了新的市立医院的设计图已经努力工作了三个月。这是一场竞赛，布卢姆贝格尔确信自己能赢。

玛莎小姐：

可是……为什么——？

凯尔顿：

我来告诉你吧，小姐。他昨天描完了墨线。而每次描完墨线，他总是用陈面包将铅笔线条擦去。

玛莎小姐：

原来那就是他要买陈面包的原因！

凯尔顿：

嗯，今天——嗯，你知道，黄油正好在面包里，当他想去擦掉铅笔线条时——唉，布卢姆贝格尔的设计图现在是毁了，小姐。

凯尔顿转身离开了面包店。玛莎小姐双手抱头，开始哭起来。

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1 Read the back cover of the book, and the story introduction. What do you know now about the people in these plays? Tick one box for each sentence.

1）Richard Rockwell's father is very poor.

YES □／NO □

2）Bobby Gillian's uncle is alive.

YES □／NO □

3）Bobby usually enjoys spending money.

YES □／NO □

4）Miss Martha wants someone to love.

YES □／NO □

5）Towers Chandler is very interested in money.

YES □／NO □

2 Here are the four play titles. Which of the things, people or places below belongs to each play? Can you guess?

All That Money Can Buy

A Night Out

One Thousand Dollars

Two Loaves of Bread

a will

a necklace

Europe

a taxi driver

butter

a servant

a restaurant

a lawyer

a dancer

a painter

Broadway

a ring

blue eyes

an old hat

an architect

3 What can you guess about these plays? Tick answers for these questions (you can tick more than one).

1）What happens to Richard Rockwell in the play? He...

a）learns to dance.

b）loses his father's money.

c）moves to another town.

d）travels round Europe.

e）marries the girl he loves.

f）asks his father for help.

2）What happens to Richard's father in the play? He...

a）loses all his money.

b）helps Richard to marry.

c）falls in love.

d）dies.

e）gives Richard a job.

f）stops Richard's wedding.

3）What happens to Bobby Gillian in the play? He...

a）drinks a lot of champagne.

b）loses the woman he loves.

c）gives $1000 to one person.

d）asks a friend for help.

e）finds a job.

f）spends his money slowly.

4）What happens to Towers Chandler in the play? He...

a）goes on holiday.

b）meets a pretty girl.

c）becomes rich and famous.

d）breaks his leg.

e）makes a stupid mistake.

f）makes some new friends.

5）What happens to Miss Martha in the play? She...

a）stops dreaming of love.

b）ruins someone's work.

c）starts a new business.

d）feels sorry for someone.

e）marries a kind man.

f）loses all her friends.

ACTIVITIES

While Reading

1 Read All That Money Can Buy . Who said these words? Who were they talking to? And who or what were they talking about?

1）'Some young men pay more than a hundred dollars.'

2）'I love her, but how can I tell her?'

3）'All your money cannot make him happy.'

4）'I don't want to lose it.'

5）'Sorry, sir. But I can't.'

6）'That was a good day's work.'

2 Read One Thousand Dollars . Can you find and correct the mistakes in this passage?

Bobby's father, Septimus's Gillian, wrote his will six months before he died. The will gave Bobby one thousand pounds to spend. At first Bobby wanted to buy a ring for his favourite singer, Lotta, but she asked for one which cost three thousand. So he decided to show the money to Miss Hayden, the sister of one of Septimus's friends. Bobby hated her, but she didn't love him, because she thought he only liked football, drank tea and rode horses. Bobby was unhappy when the doctors explained that she would get the rest of Septimus's money.

3 Read A Night Out . Choose the best question-words for these questions, and then answer them.

How/Where/Why

1）... much does Chandler save each week?

2）... often does Chandler go out to an expensive restaurant?

3）... can't Marian walk home?

4）... does Chandler take Marian?

5）... doesn't Chandler tell Marian the truth?

6）... is Marian when she is talking to Sissie?

7）... couldn't Marian love a man like Chandler?

4 Read Two Loaves of Bread . Match these halves of sentences and put them together using the words below.

because　but　so　which　while

1）Blumberger always bought stale bread,

2）Miss Martha saw some paint on his fingers,

3）... he only bought stale bread,

4）... he wasn't looking,

5）She hoped that he would be pleased,

6）She thought that he was very poor.

7）... she thought that he was a painter.

8）... in fact he was very angry with her.

9）She put some butter in his bread.

10）... was cheaper than fresh bread.

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1 Anthony Rockwell has just finished talking to Richard (see page 8 ), and now he is talking to Kelly. Complete Kelly's part of the conversation. (Use as many words as you like.)

Rockwell: Ah, Kelly. I've got a little job for you.

Kelly: Good afternoon, Mr Rockwell. What _____?

Rockwell: I want you to stop all the traffic on Broadway.

Kelly: But how _____?

Rockwell:Easy – just pay a lot of people to drive there!

Kelly: But what about _____?

Rockwell: You'll have to pay them too. Then they won't do anything to help.

Kelly: But it's going to _____!

Rockwell: Don't worry. I'll give you $5000 to start with.

Kelly: So when _____?

Rockwell: Tomorrow at 8.30 in the evening.

Kelly: Well, how much _____?

Rockwell: I'll give you a thousand for yourself.

Kelly: All right, _____.

Rockwell: That's wonderful, Kelly. Here's the money.

2 Here is a different ending for A Night Out – a new Scene 4. Complete the passage, using one word in each gap.

Scene 4

Marian comes back into the _____.

Chandler:(Standing up) Oh, Miss Marian!

Marian: I wanted to ask you _____. Is it really _____ that you don't have a _____?

Chandler: No, I'm _____, I don't _____ why I told you that.

Marian: Oh, good! I couldn't possibly _____ a man who has no _____ to do in the _____.

Chandler: Does that mean, Miss Marian, that perhaps you could _____ me? But I must _____ you, I haven't got much _____.

Marian: That doesn't _____, because my _____ are very rich.

Chandler: I _____ you, Miss Marian! Will you _____ me?

Marian: Mr Chandler, my answer is _____!

which do you prefer, the ending in the book or the ending here? Explain why, or write a new ending yourself.

which do you prefer, the ending in the book or the ending here? Explain why, or write a new ending yourself.

3 Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with these sentences from the plays? Explain why.

1）'Money talks, right?'

2）'Sometimes dreams come true.'

3）'We all know that painters are very often poor.'

4）'A thousand dollars can be a lot or very little.'

5）'Money is nothing when you have true love.'

4 Perhaps this is what some of the characters in the plays are thinking. Which characters are they, and in which play? And what is happening in the play at this moment?

1）'He didn't see what I was doing! He's taken them! Oh, I am pleased! That'll fatten him up a bit.'

2）'But where can she be? She's been out for two hours! And she's wearing that old coat and hat! I hope she's all right.'

3）'Oh, he's so sweet! He buys me so many presents! I'd love a necklace like Della's. It'll look so much better on me than her!'

4）'I knew that ring would bring him luck. The dear boy! True love at last! I'm going to tell his father the good news at once.'

5）'So he thinks that giving money to the poor is a crazy idea? He only ever thinks of himself, that young man. Why did he ask me, anyway? Oh well, back to my book.'

5 Here are some new titles for the four plays. Which titles go with which plays? Which titles do you prefer, and why?

Money Talks

The Rich Man and the Shop Girl

An Architect's Plan

Traffic on Broadway

Dinner for Two

The Quiet Woman

Butter for Blumberger

Lawyers Know Best

6 Put these words from the plays into four groups, under these headings.

FOOD

NUMBERS

JOBS

FAMILY

aunt, bread, butter, cake, daughter, dressmaker, fifty, hundred, lawyer, million, painter, servant, sister, taxi driver, thousand, uncle

Now find all the sixteen words in this word search, and draw lines through them. The words go from left to right, and from top to bottom.

7 Look at the word search again and write down all the letters that don't have a line through them. Begin with the first line and go across each line to the end. You will have thirty-five letters, which will make a phrase of eight words.

1）What are the words, who said them, and about whom?

2）How does it make you feel about the speaker, and why?





京权图字：01-2013-7826

Published by arrangement with Oxford University Press for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom. This edition is for sale in the mainland of China only, excluding Hong Kong SAR, Macao SAR and Taiwan.

© Oxford University Press 2008

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

陷坑与钟摆：英汉对照／（美）坡（Poe, E. A.）著；（英）埃斯科特（Escott, J.）改写；（英）米勒（Miller, I.）绘；田娜译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2014.2

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：The pit and the pendulum and other stories

ISBN 978-7-5135-4075-9

Ⅰ．①陷…　Ⅱ．①坡…②埃…③米…④田…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②长篇小说—美国—近代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2014）第029029号

出版人　　蔡剑峰

责任编辑　金　辉

执行编辑　谷　丰

封面设计　蔡　颖

出版发行　外语教学与研究出版社

社　　址　北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

网　　址　http://www.fltrp.com

版　　次　2014年3月第1版

书　　号　ISBN 978-7-5135-4075-9

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


一个人躺在托莱多的狱中。他心里害怕——不，不止害怕，他充满了恐惧，因为他知道宗教法庭的狱中有五花八门的“惊喜”。很快，他就会看到下方的陷坑……

这个人并不是书中唯一一个满怀恐惧的人。当福尔图纳托正高高兴兴地要去参加狂欢节聚会时，他遇到了老朋友蒙特雷索。蒙特雷索想要聊聊阿蒙提拉多酒的事情，于是福尔图纳托发现自己身处蒙特雷索家房子下面阴冷潮湿的地窖之中。恐惧很快随之袭来……

一个害怕被活埋的人永远无法摆脱恐惧；一对年轻恋人的密会使很多人陷入恐惧之中；画家年轻貌美的妻子端坐在那里，一直微笑着——然而她心中充满了恐惧。

死亡和恐惧，恐惧和死亡，两者在这些故事中总是牵手相伴。请你在白天，选一个洒满阳光的房间，并在朋友的陪伴下阅读这些故事吧！

THE PIT AND THE PENDULUM


and Other Stories


A man is lying in a prison in Toledo. He is afraid – no, he is more than afraid, he is full of terror, because he knows that the Inquisition has many surprises in its prisons. Very soon he will look down into the pit...

And he is not the only person in these stories to be full of terror. When Fortunato meets his old friend Montresor, he is a happy man, on his way to a carnival party. But Montresor wants to talk about some Amontillado, and Fortunato finds himself in the cold damp vaults below Montresor's house. Terror soon follows...

The man who fears burial alive is never free from terror; a meeting of young lovers brings terror to many people; and the beautiful young wife of a painter sits smiling, smiling, smiling – but with terror in her heart.

Death and Terror, Terror and Death, walk hand in hand through these stories. Read them by daylight, in a bright sunny room, with friends around you!





The Pit and the Pendulum


I will not open my eyes. Not yet. I lie on my back, very still, and remember...

The black clothes of the judges... their voices, their words. You must die ... I watched the judges' mouths – mouths speaking my name, ordering my death. You must die ... Cold hands of terror closed round my heart. Then came a sweet thought – what wonderful rest there will be in the grave! After that, I fainted, and saw and heard nothing for a long while.

But I knew when they took me away from that room. They were tall men, moving silently. Down... down they carried me, down into darkness and terror.

I have not opened my eyes yet. I lie on my back, and put out my hand. It falls heavily on something wet and hard. Where am I? Am I still in the prisons at Toledo? Why am I still alive? The Spanish Inquisition kills by fire. Why have they not burnt me to death?

And now I remember other stories of the prisons at Toledo, stories of other kinds of death...

I am afraid to open my eyes. Not afraid of seeing something terrible, but afraid that there is nothing to see. And when at last I do open them, I am right. The blackness of the blackest night is around me. Am I already dead? No! A terrible thought comes to me. I am in a tomb – they have buried me alive in a tomb!

A terrible thought comes to me. I am in a tomb...

I jump up, moving my arms around me. I can feel and see nothing. This place is too big to be a tomb.

I walk on, slowly, until my fingers touch a wall. It is wet and cold. I begin to follow it round, but then stop. How big is my prison? I must know. I tear off a small piece of my long prison shirt and put it on the floor, next to the wall. I move on again, counting my steps.

Walking is not easy. My feet often slip on the wet floor, and suddenly I fall down. I lie there, with my eyes closed. I want to get up, but I am tired... so tired...

I sleep for some time. When I wake up, I put out my arm and find bread and a bottle of water next to me. I eat hungrily and drink from the bottle. After a time, I get up and follow the wall again, counting my steps.

When I find the piece of my shirt on the floor, I stop and think. My prison is about fifty steps around – so about thirty metres. Does it help me to know this? Perhaps not, but now I want to know more.

I start to move across the room, away from the wall. After six or seven steps, my feet slip on the wet floor again, and I fall heavily on my face.

And yet... there is nothing under my head. My body lies on the floor, but under my head there is... nothing. And I can feel on my face a little soft wind, bringing with it a smell, a warm wet smell – the smell of things that have been dead for a long time.

I put out my arm, and find that I am on the edge of a pit. How deep is it? I feel around the floor with my fingers and find a small stone. I drop it into the pit, and listen. After a long time, it falls into water.

At the same moment, a door opens and closes high above me. For a second there is light in my prison, and then it is gone again. But in that second I see I was just one step away from death in that terrible pit.

Shaking, I move slowly back to the wall. I have heard stories about the prison pits of the Inquisition, and they do not give you a quick, clean death.

Dear God, I am going to die in this prison – a slow and terrible death. Every second of every hour of every day I will wait for it, and the waiting will be as terrible as the death itself.

My fear keeps me from sleep for many long hours, but at last my eyes close. When I wake up, there is bread and water beside me again. So... they are watching me all the time, and come in while I am asleep.

I am very thirsty and I drink the water quickly. They have put something in it because at once I feel very sleepy, and I fall into a long, deep sleep. For how long, I do not know. But when I wake up, it is not so dark. A yellow light is coming from somewhere, and I can see my prison at last.

The room is square, and the walls are not made of stone but of metal. There are pictures on them, pictures of faces with wild-looking eyes – the eyes of devils. In the centre of the stone floor is the pit.

I cannot stand up! Why?

Now I see. I am lying on my back, and am tied to a low wooden bed, with many ropes around my body. I can move my head a little, and my right arm, and I can just get a hand to the plate of food on the floor next to me. But there is no bottle of water... and I am so thirsty. The food this time is meat, dry salty meat, which makes me even thirstier than I was before.

I look up at the metal ceiling above me. On one square of it there is a picture of old Father Time. He is holding a pendulum... No, wait! The pendulum is real – it is moving from side to side.

I watch it for a while, a little afraid. Then I hear a noise. Nine or ten large rats have come up from the pit. They can smell the meat, and are running to it across the floor. I make them go away again, but it is hard work.

Because of the rats it is about an hour before I look up at the ceiling again. The pendulum is still moving from side to side, but more strongly now, and... yes! It is getting lower! Then I go cold with terror. I see that the bottom of the pendulum is made of a great piece of metal, bright and sharp – sharper than the blade of any knife. It is right above my heart, and when it moves from side to side through the air, the blade makes a terrible hissing noise.

And with each move, it comes nearer and nearer.

I escaped death in the pit, but now I am staring at another death. I can do nothing, only watch in terror, and wait until that bright blade cuts into my body.

With each move of the pendulum, that bright blade comes nearer and nearer.

 　　 　　

Hours, perhaps days, go past. I do not know how many, but the terror does not stop.

I have counted the moves of the pendulum... watched the blade come lower and lower... heard the hissing get louder and louder. Already I can smell the metal of the sharp blade, and I push my body up to it.

'Come! Cut me! Be quick, give me death!'

I sleep, wake, and sleep again. And still the pendulum moves from side to side above me, and the blade comes nearer and nearer. When it reaches me, it will cut across my body, into my heart.

I cannot stop watching it now. I cry out, I laugh, I scream, and still the blade comes nearer. So many long hours of terror. When will they end?

I am hungry, and put out my hand to take the last piece of meat from the plate on the floor. Wait!

A thought comes into my head.

Could I...?

It is only a small hope, but...

The rats are still with me, waiting around my bed, watching me with their red, hungry eyes. 'What food', I think, 'do they eat in that terrible pit?'

They can smell the piece of meat in my hand. I can see their eyes, watching. The meat is full of fat, and if I put the fat on the ropes around my body...

I do this. Then I lie still.

Yes! Some of the biggest rats have jumped up on me. Now there are more, coming from the pit. Suddenly there are hundreds of them running over me, over my body, over my face, touching my eyes, my mouth with their cold mouths. Aaagh!

In seconds the blade will begin to cut into me. I must lie still, I must lie still...

And yes! The rats are eating into the ropes – I can feel it! The blade of the pendulum begins to cut my shirt, and now my body, but the rats have done their work and the ropes fall away from me.

I push the rats off, move away from the pendulum, off the bed, onto the floor. There! I am free!

Free – but still a prisoner of the Inquisition.

The pendulum has stopped moving. It is going back up through the ceiling. So, they are still watching me. What new terror will they send me now?

I look around my metal prison. Already, something is different, something has changed. What is it? And this yellow light, where is it coming from? I look again at the metal walls – and now I can see the narrow gap along the bottom. The yellow light comes from there. I get down to look, but cannot see through the gap.

When I stand up again, I see at once what is different. Those faces on the walls... the colours are brighter, and those wild, devilish eyes burn with – with fire. Yes, real fire! The walls and ceiling are burning, and the smell of hot metal fills the prison. Already it is hard to breathe.

I move away from the wall to the pit in the centre of the room. The burning ceiling sends light deep into the pit, and looking down, I see...

Looking down into the pit, I see...

No, no, I cannot – I cannot speak of it! Not this! No, no, not this! Oh, any terror, but not this!

I run from the edge and hide my face in my hands.

It is getting hotter, much hotter. Shaking, I take my hands away from my face and look up. What's this? The walls are moving . The room is changing, it is longer and narrower, the walls are closing in on me. So this is the new death – death by burning. Then come, Death! Any death is better than the pit!

But the burning walls push me nearer and nearer to the centre of the room – and the pit. Of course! That is what they want! The walls will push me until I fall into the pit! There will be no escape from this death.

So hot now, and getting hotter... the burning walls closing in... nowhere to stand... my back and arms are burnt... my feet are on the edge of the pit... I cannot hold... I give one last, long scream—

Voices! I can hear voices! Yes, and the sound of running feet, doors opening, men shouting. Now the burning walls are moving back. A hand catches my arm as I begin to fall, fainting, into the pit.

It is General Lasalle. The French army has arrived in the city of Toledo, and the Spanish Inquisition is at last in the hands of its enemies.

pit n. a large deep hole in the ground 陷坑

pit

pendulum n. the part of a machine that swings from side to side 钟摆

pendulum

terror n. very great fear 恐惧

terror

grave n. a place where a dead person is buried 墓穴

grave

faint v. to fall down suddenly because you are ill or afraid 晕厥

faint

Inquisition n. a group of Roman Catholic churchmen from around the 12th through 18th centuries who punished people who did not agree with them 宗教法庭，异端裁判所

Inquisition

tomb n. a small stone building for a dead person 坟墓

tomb

step n. one movement of your feet when you walk （一）步

step

slip v. to almost fall 滑，滑跤

slip

edge n. the part along the end or side of something 边缘

edge

fear n. what you feel when you are afraid 恐惧，害怕

fear

thirsty adj. needing to drink or feeling that you want a drink 口渴的

thirsty

ceiling n. the part of a room that is over your head 屋顶，天花板

ceiling

blade n. the part of a knife that cuts 刀锋，刀刃

blade

hissing n. something sounds like "ssss" 咝咝声

hissing

fat n. an oily substance contained in certain foods 脂肪

fat

gap n. a space between two things 缝隙

gap

devilish adj. very bad, difficult or unpleasant 极坏的，恶毒的

devilish

陷坑与钟摆


我不想睁开眼睛。现在还不是时候。我仰面躺着，一动不动，回想着……

裁判官们黑色的袍服……他们的声音，他们的话语。你必须死 ……我看着裁判官们的嘴——那些嘴说出我的名字，宣判我的死刑。你必须死 ……冰冷的恐惧之手攥住了我的心。随即我的脑海里冒出了一个愉快的念头——长眠于坟墓里是多么惬意呀！之后，我便昏迷了过去，好长一段时间什么也看不到，什么也听不到。

可是当他们把我从那个房间拖走时，我是知道的。他们个子高大，轻手轻脚。向下……他们拖着我向下，向下进入到黑暗和恐惧之中。

我还没有睁开眼睛。我仰面躺着，伸出一只手。手重重地落在又湿又硬的东西上面。我在哪儿？我还在托莱多的监狱里吗？为什么我还活着？西班牙的宗教法庭通常采用火刑。他们为什么还没有烧死我？

此刻我记起了关于托莱多监狱的其他传闻，传闻中的其他死法……

我害怕睁开眼睛。不是害怕看到什么可怕的东西，而是害怕什么也看不到。而当我最终睁开眼时，我猜对了。无尽的黑暗包围着我。我已经死了吗？不！一个可怕的念头出现在我的脑海里。我在一个坟墓里——他们把我活埋在一个坟墓里了！

我跳了起来，伸出手臂四处摸索。我什么也摸不着，什么也看不到。这个地方太大，不可能是一个坟墓。

我慢慢地往前走，直到手指碰到了一面墙。墙壁又湿又冷。我开始顺着墙走，但很快就停了下来。我的牢房有多大？我必须知道。我从自己长长的牢服上撕下了一小条布，把它放在墙根处的地面上。我继续往前走，数着我的脚步。

走路并非易事。我的脚常常在潮湿的地面上打滑。突然，我摔倒了。我躺在地上，闭着眼睛。我想要站起来，可是我累了……已经筋疲力尽……

我睡了一段时间。醒来后，我伸出手臂，在身边摸到了面包和一瓶水。我狼吞虎咽地吃着面包，喝着瓶里的水。过了一会儿，我起身继续顺着墙壁走，边走边数我的脚步。

当我碰到地板上放着的那块牢服上撕下的布条时，我停下来思索。我的牢房绕一圈约五十步——这么说，大约是三十米。这个发现对我有用吗？或许没有，但是现在我想知道更多情况。

我开始横穿牢房，从墙边向中央走去。六七步之后，我的脚又在潮湿的地面上滑了一下，我脸朝下重重地摔倒了。

然而……我的头下面竟然什么都没有。我的身体趴在地面上，但我的头下面则是……空无一物。我的脸能感觉到一阵微风，随之飘来一种味道，一种温暖潮湿的味道——是什么东西死了很久之后散发出的味道。

我伸出手臂，发现自己趴在一个坑的边缘。这个坑有多深？我用手指在地面上四处摸索，找到了一块小石头。我把它扔进坑里，侧耳倾听。过了很久，它掉进了水里。

与此同时，上方远远的某处，一扇门打开后又关上了。有那么一瞬间，我的牢房里有了亮光，然后亮光又消失了。可就在那一瞬间，我看到我只差一步就要掉进那个可怕的坑里丧命。

我浑身颤抖，慢慢挪回到了墙边。我听说过关于宗教法庭监狱里的陷坑的传闻，而那绝不是一种干脆、痛快的死法。

天啊，我要死在这个监狱里了——缓慢而痛苦地死去。每天每时每刻，我都在等着死亡的降临，而等待过程之可怕绝不亚于死亡本身。

我的恐惧使我久久不能入睡，不过最终我的眼睛还是合上了。等我醒来的时候，我的身边又放着面包和水。这么说……他们一直在监视我，等我睡着时才进来。

我非常渴，于是迅速地喝着水。他们在水里放了什么东西，因为我马上就感觉到非常困倦，然后就陷入了长时间的沉睡之中。睡了多久，我不知道。可等我醒来时，四周已经不那么漆黑了。不知从哪里射来了黄色的光线，我终于能看清我的牢房了。

牢房是方形的，墙壁不是石头的，而是金属的。墙壁上有一些画，画的是一张张脸，脸上长着狰狞的眼睛——魔鬼的眼睛。石头地面的中央是那个陷坑。

我无法站起身来！为什么呢？

现在我知道了。我仰面躺着，被绑在一张低矮的木床上，身上缠了很多条绳索。我能稍稍动一下头，还能动我的右臂，只能伸出手够到我旁边地面上的餐盘。可是没有水……我渴极了。这次的食物是肉，又干又咸的肉，这令我比吃之前还要口渴。

我抬头看着我上方的金属天花板。有一块方形嵌板上是时间老人的画像。他拿着一个钟摆……不，等等！那个钟摆是真的 ——它正来回摆动呢。

我盯着它看了一会儿，有一点儿害怕。接着我听到一些动静。九或十只大老鼠从陷坑里爬了上来。它们闻到肉味，跑了过来。我把它们赶走了，但这可不是件易事。

因为要赶老鼠的缘故，大约一个小时之后我才又抬头看了看天花板。钟摆还在来回摆动，可是现在摆得更加有力了，而且……是的！它正在下降！我随即吓得浑身发冷。我看到钟摆的下端是由一大块金属制成的，明亮而锋利——比任何刀刃都要锋利。它就在我心脏的正上方，每当它在空中从一边摆到另一边，那利刃就发出可怕的咝咝 声。

而且随着每一次的摆动，它离我越来越近。

我躲过了命丧陷坑，可现在却眼睁睁地看着死亡再次降临。我什么都做不了，只能满怀恐惧地看着，等待着，直到那个明晃晃的利刃劈入我的身体。

 　　 　　

几个小时，也可能是几天过去了。虽然，我不知道过了多久，可是恐惧一刻都不曾停止。

我数着钟摆摆动的次数……看着那利刃越来越低……听着那咝咝声越来越响。我已经能闻到那利刃的金属味了，于是我挺起身迎向它。

“来啊！劈了我！快一点儿，让我死吧！”

我睡了醒，醒了又睡。钟摆依然在我上方摆来摆去，利刃越来越近。等它够到我，就会劈开我的身体，劈入我的心脏。

现在，我无法不去看它。我大喊，大笑，大叫，然而利刃依然逐渐逼近。那绵延无尽的恐惧，到底何时才会停止？

我饿了，伸出手去拿地上盘中的最后一块肉。等等 ！

我想到了一个主意。

我能不能……？

虽然希望渺茫，可是……

那些老鼠还待在我身边，围在我的床边等着，它们用饥饿的红眼睛瞪着我。我想，“它们在那个可怕的陷坑里吃什么？”

它们能闻到我手里那块肉的味道。我能看到它们的眼睛正盯着肉看。那肉肥得流油，如果我把油脂抹在捆绑我的绳子上面……

我那么做了。然后我静静地躺着。

太棒了！那些体型最大的老鼠中有一些跳到了我身上。现在有更多的老鼠从陷坑里爬了出来。顷刻之间，有数百只老鼠跑到了我的身上、脸上，用它们冰冷的嘴触碰着我的眼睛、我的嘴。啊！

再过几秒钟，那利刃就将劈入我的身体。我必须一动不动地躺着，我必须一动不动地躺着……

太棒了！老鼠们正在咬绳子——我能感觉到！钟摆的利刃开始切割我的牢服，现在已经要切到我的身体了，好在老鼠们已经完成了它们的工作，绳索从我身上掉了下去。

我驱开群鼠，逃离了钟摆，翻身下地。就这样！我自由了！

自由了——但还是宗教法庭的囚徒。

钟摆停止了摆动。它升回到天花板上。这么说，他们还在监视我。现在他们还要给我制造什么新的恐惧？

我环视这间金属牢房。有什么东西已经不一样了，某些东西发生了变化。是什么？这黄色的光线来自何处？我再次朝金属墙壁看去——现在我能看到墙根处狭窄的缝隙了。黄色的光线就是从那里照进来的。我蹲下查看，可是看不到缝隙的外面是什么。

等我再次站起来后，我马上看出了有什么不同。墙上的那些面孔……那些色彩更加明亮，那些狰狞、恶鬼般的眼中燃烧着——火焰。是的，真正的火焰！墙壁和天花板正在燃烧，炙热的金属散发出的味道充满了整个牢房。这里已经令人难以呼吸。

我从墙壁旁走到牢房中央的陷坑边上。燃烧的天花板发出的光芒照亮了陷坑的深处，我低头看去，看到了……

不，不，我不能——我说不出来！不要是这个！不，不，不要是这个！啊，随便什么可怕的东西都行，但不要是这个！

我从坑边跑开，用手捂住了脸。

牢房里越来越热，热得厉害。我颤抖着把手从脸上拿开，向上看去。这是怎么回事？墙壁正在移动 。牢房正在发生变化，它变得更长更窄，墙壁正朝我逼近。原来这就是新的死法——被火烧死。那么来吧，死亡！任何死法都比死在陷坑里强！

可是燃烧的墙壁将我一步步推向牢房中央——还有那个陷坑。当然！那就是他们想要的！墙壁会一直逼迫我，直到我掉进陷坑 为止！这种死法是无论如何也逃脱不了了。

现在这么炙热，而且越来越热……燃烧的墙壁逼迫过来……站立的地方都没有……我的后背和胳膊都烧伤了……我的脚就在陷坑的边缘……我坚持不住了……我发出了最后一声长长的尖叫——

声音！我能听到声音！是的，还有跑步的声音，开门的声音和人们的喊声。现在燃烧的墙壁正在往回移动。就在我要晕倒跌入陷坑之时，一只手抓住了我的胳膊。

是拉萨尔将军。法国军队攻入了托莱多城，而西班牙宗教法庭最终落入了它的敌人之手。





The Cask of Amontillado


Fortunato did and said a thousand things to hurt me. But when he insulted me, I knew that it was time to punish him. 'But I must do it cleverly and secretly,' I thought. 'Only Fortunato himself must know that I am punishing him.'

I was as friendly to Fortunato as before, of course. I went on smiling at him, and he did not know that I was smiling at the thought of his death.

Both he and I liked and bought fine wine. Fortunato knew very little about other things, but he did know about wine and sherry wine. And so did I.

One evening, during the city's carnival, I met my friend in the street. He was dressed in carnival clothes and smelled strongly of wine.

'My dear Fortunato!' I said. 'What luck to meet you! I have bought a cask of Amontillado – but now, well, I'm not so sure that it is Amontillado.'

'Amontillado?' said Fortunato. 'No, no! Nobody sells the best sherry in the middle of carnival. No, no, no!'

'I was stupid,' I said. 'I paid the full Amontillado price, and did not ask you to try it first. But I couldn't find you, and I was afraid of losing it to another buyer. So, the cask is already in my vaults.'

'Amontillado!' he said.

'Perhaps,' I said. 'But I must be sure. I can see that you are on your way to a carnival party. I'll go and see Luchresi. He will tell me—'

'I can see you are on your way to a carnival party.'

'Luchresi does not know the difference between Amontillado and any other sherry wine,' he said.

'Really? But some people say that he knows wine as well as you do.'

'Come, let's go,' he said.

'Where to?'

'To your vaults,' he said.

'My friend, no,' I said. 'I can hear that you have a bad cough, and my vaults are terribly cold and wet.'

'My cough is nothing,' Fortunato said. 'Let's go. Amontillado! Never! Your wine-seller is stealing your money. And as for Luchresi – what does he know about Amontillado?'

He took my arm, and we walked quickly to my house.

There was no one at home because my servants were out enjoying themselves at the carnival. I took Fortunato through the building and down the stairs into the vaults. Here were the tombs of the Montresors – my family.

'The Amontillado?' Fortunato said. He began to cough in the cold, damp air.

'It's further on,' I said. 'How long have you had that cough?'

He went on coughing for some time before he could answer me. 'It is nothing,' he said, at last.

My friend was full of wine, and found walking difficult. The little bells on his carnival suit made ringing noises when he moved. He began to cough again.

'We'll go back,' I said. 'You must not get ill. You have family, friends, you are loved, needed – you must take care of yourself. We'll go back. I can go to Luchresi—'

'Stop!' he said. 'The cough is nothing. It will not kill me. I shall not die from a cough.'

'That's true,' I said. 'But you must be careful. Take a drink from this bottle of Medoc. It is a good wine and will warm you. Here you are, drink this!'

I opened the bottle and gave it to him. 'I drink,' he said, 'to all the dead Montresors sleeping around us.' And he drank.

'And I drink to your long life,' I said.

Again he took my arm and we walked on.

'These vaults are very large,' he said.

'The Montresor family is a very old one. There have been a great many of us.'

I was warmed by the Medoc, and the wine was making Fortunato's eyes bright. We walked on, past casks and bottles of wine, deep into the vaults. I stopped again and held his arm.

We walked on, deep into the vaults.

'We are under the river now,' I said. 'See how wet the walls are here. Come, we will go back before it is too late. Your cough—'

'It is nothing,' he said. 'Let's go on. But first, another drink to keep us warm.'

I took another bottle of wine and gave it to him. He drank it all without stopping. His eyes were even brighter, and he laughed.

'Now, let's go on to the Amontillado,' he said.

We went on, and down, and came into the deepest vault. Around three walls, from floor to ceiling, were the bones of the dead. Many more bones lay on the floor. Cut into the fourth wall was a smaller vault.

Fortunato held up his torch and looked into the blackness, but could see nothing.

'Go in,' I told him. 'You will find the Amontillado in there.'

He went inside and I followed him. In three steps he was at the back wall of the vault, and he stood there, looking stupid. On the wall were two metal rings and a chain with a lock. Before he could do anything, I put the chain around him and locked it to the rings.

'Put your hand on the wall, Fortunato,' I said. 'How wet it is! How very wet! Once more I ask, why don't you go back? No? Then I must leave you. But first I must try to make you comfortable.'

'The – the Amontillado!' my friend said. He did not understand.

'True,' I said. 'The Amontillado.'

Hidden under some of the bones on the floor were stones and other things for building a wall. I took them across to the small vault and began to work quickly.

Before the wall was half a metre high, Fortunato began to make soft crying noises. Then he was silent for some time. I worked on busily, building the wall higher and higher. Then I heard him again. He was pulling the chain and shaking it, but I knew the lock was strong.

The wall was now as high as my neck. I held my torch higher, to see his face. He began to scream, long high screams, filled with terror. I listened, worrying. No, we were too deep under the ground. No sounds would escape from this vault. I screamed back at Fortunato, longer and louder. Then he stopped.

I held my torch higher, to see his face.

By midnight the wall was nearly finished. There was one last heavy stone. I had it almost in place when I heard a soft but terrible laugh.

Then Fortunato's sad voice said, 'Ha! Ha! Ha! A very good joke. We will laugh about it often when we are drinking our wine.'

'The Amontillado!' I said.

'Ha! Ha! Yes, the Amontillado. But it is getting late. My wife and friends are waiting for me. Let's go now, Montresor.'

'Yes,' I said. 'Let's go.'

'For the love of God, Montresor!'

'Yes,' I said. 'For the love of God.'

I waited for an answer. None came.

'Fortunato!' I called.

No answer. I called again.

'Fortunato!'

Still no answer. I pushed my torch through the gap in the wall and let it fall. Still nothing. I put the last stone in place, and then in front of the new wall I put the bones of the dead.

For fifty years, nobody has moved them.

Amontillado n. a kind of sherry wine 阿蒙提拉多酒（是雪利酒的一个知名品种）

Amontillado

insult v. to say something bad about somebody 侮辱

insult

punish v. to make someone suffer because they have done something wrong 惩罚

punish

sherry n. a pale or dark brown strong wine, originally from Spain 雪利酒（原产于西班牙的一种白色或深褐色的烈性酒）

sherry

carnival n. a party for everybody in the streets, with music, singing, and dancing 狂欢节

carnival

vault n. an underground room used to store things, such as wine or vegetables for the winter 地窖，地下室

vault

damp adj. a little bit wet 潮湿的

damp

suit n. a set of clothes used for a certain purpose （特定场合穿的）一套衣服

suit

torch n. a long stick with burning material at one end that produces light 火把，火炬

torch

escape v. if gas, liquid, light, heat etc escapes from somewhere, it comes out, especially when you do not want it to （气体、液体、光、热等）泄漏，逸出

escape

一桶阿蒙提拉多酒


福尔图纳托用他的言行伤害过我千百次。但当他侮辱我的时候，我知道是时候惩罚他了。“不过我必须干得既巧妙又隐秘。”我想，“要只有福尔图纳托自己知道我在惩罚他。”

当然了，我对福尔图纳托像以前一样友好。我照旧向他微笑，而他并不知道我是想到了他的死才笑的。

他和我一样，既爱喝也爱买上好的葡萄酒。福尔图纳托对其他的事情知之甚少，但他确实了解葡萄酒和雪利酒。我也如此。

一天傍晚，适逢城里的狂欢节，我在街上遇到了我这位朋友。他穿着狂欢节的衣服，浑身都是浓烈的酒味。

“我亲爱的福尔图纳托！”我说，“这么巧遇到你！我买了一桶阿蒙提拉多酒——不过现在，呃，我有点拿不准它是不是 阿蒙提拉多酒。”

“阿蒙提拉多酒？”福尔图纳托说，“不，不会的！没有人会在狂欢节的时候卖最好的雪利酒。不，不，不会的！”

“我真傻。”我说，“我按阿蒙提拉多酒的价格付了钱，却没有事先让你替我尝尝。可我找不到你，而且我怕被别的买家买走了。所以，那桶酒已经在我的地窖里了。”

“阿蒙提拉多酒！”他说。

“或许是。”我说，“不过我必须确认一下。我看得出来你正要去参加狂欢节聚会呢。我去找卢奇雷西吧。他会告诉我——”

“卢奇雷西不知道阿蒙提拉多酒与其他雪利酒的区别。”他说。

“是吗？可是有些人说他对葡萄酒的了解跟你一样深。”

“走，我们去吧。”他说。

“去哪儿？”

“去你的地窖。”他说。

“我的朋友，不行。”我说，“我听得出来，你咳嗽得很厉害，而我的地窖里非常阴冷潮湿。”

“我的咳嗽不算什么。”福尔图纳托说，“我们走吧。阿蒙提拉多酒！不可能！酒商是在骗你的钱。至于卢奇雷西——他对阿蒙提拉多酒知道个啥？”

他拽着我的手臂，快步向我家走去。

家里没人，因为我的仆人们都去狂欢节找乐子去了。我带着福尔图纳托穿过房屋，走下台阶，进了地窖。这里是蒙特雷索家族——我们家族——的墓穴。

“阿蒙提拉多酒呢？”福尔图纳托问。阴冷潮湿的空气使他开始咳嗽起来。

“还要往里走。”我说，“你咳嗽多久了？”

他又咳嗽了好一阵才能回答我。“没关系。”他终于能开口说话了。

我的朋友喝了很多酒，感到走路有些困难。他一动，那身狂欢节装束上的小铃铛就发出丁零丁零的响声。他又咳嗽了起来。

“我们回去吧。”我说，“可别把你弄病了。你有家人、有朋友，他们爱你、需要你——你必须照顾好自己。我们回去吧。我可以去找卢克雷西——”

“打住！”他说，“咳嗽不算什么，要不了我的命。我不会因为咳嗽而死掉。”

“那倒是。”我说，“可你一定要小心。喝一点这瓶梅多克葡萄酒吧。这可是好酒，会让你暖和起来。给，喝吧！”

我打开酒瓶，递给了他。“为，”他说，“我们周围所有长眠的蒙特雷索家的人而举杯。”然后他喝了下去。

“祝你长命百岁。”我说。

他又拉起我的手臂，我们继续往前走。

“这些窖室可真大。”他说。

“蒙特雷索是一个非常古老的家族。我们家族有很多人。”

喝完梅多克葡萄酒，我暖和了起来，这酒也让福尔图纳托的眼神明亮起来。我们继续走着，经过了一个个酒桶和一瓶瓶葡萄酒，进入了地窖的深处。我又停了下来，抓住他的手臂。

“我们现在在河的下面。”我说，“看看这儿的墙壁有多湿呀。算了，我们回去吧，不然就太迟了。你的咳嗽——”

“没关系。”他说，“我们继续走吧。不过先再喝一点儿酒取暖吧。”

我又拿了一瓶葡萄酒，递给了他。他一口气都喝了下去。他的眼神更加明亮了，然后他笑了起来。

“好了，我们去找阿蒙提拉多酒吧。”他说。

我们继续向前走，又向下走，进入了最深的一间窖室。房间的三面墙上架满了死人的骸骨，从地板直抵天花板。地上堆放着更多的骸骨。而在第四面墙后挖开了一间小一点的窖室。

福尔图纳托举起火把，向黑暗中看去，可是什么也没看见。

“进去吧。”我对他说，“你进去就能看到阿蒙提拉多酒了。”

他走了进去，我尾随而入。他只走了三步，就到了窖室尽头。他站在那里，露出一副呆滞的表情。墙上有两个金属圆环，还有一条带锁的链子。他还没反应过来，我就用链条捆住了他，把链条锁在了圆环上。

“把你的手放到墙上，福尔图纳托。”我说，“墙多潮湿呀！潮湿极了 ！我再问一遍，你为什么不回去？真不回去？那么我要离开你了。不过我必须先把你弄得舒舒服服的。”

“那——那桶阿蒙提拉多酒！”我的朋友说。他不明白这是怎么回事。

“是的。”我说，“阿蒙提拉多酒。”

堆在地上的骸骨下藏着砌墙用的石头和一些其他东西。我把它们搬到小窖室这边，麻利地干起活来。

墙快要砌到半米高的时候，福尔图纳托开始发出轻轻的哭声。然后他又安静了一会儿。我继续忙活着，把墙砌得越来越高。随后我又听到了他的动静。他拽着链条使劲扯，但我知道那把锁非常结实。

墙现在跟我的脖子一般高了。我把火把举高了一些，好看到他的脸。他开始尖叫，长时间的高声尖叫，充满了恐惧。我听着，有些惴惴不安。不，我们在地下很深的地方。没有声音能从这个窖室传出去。我也朝着福尔图纳托大叫起来，叫声比他还长还响亮。然后他便不作声了。

到了半夜，墙快要砌好了。还剩最后一块沉重的石头。就在我快要把它放好的时候，我听到了一阵轻微但却可怕的笑声。

接着，福尔图纳托悲怆的声音响了起来：“哈！哈！哈！真是个好玩笑。我们以后喝酒的时候会常拿这事来笑一笑。”

“阿蒙提拉多酒！”我说。

“哈！哈！是的，阿蒙提拉多酒。可是现在太晚了。我的妻子和朋友们都在等我呢。我们走吧，蒙特雷索。”

“好的。”我说，“我们走吧。”

“发发慈悲 ，蒙特雷索 ！”

“是的。”我说，“发慈悲。”

我等着他答话。可是没声音了。

“福尔图纳托！”我大声喊。

没有回音。我又喊了一声。

“福尔图纳托！”

还是没有回音。我把火把塞到墙缝中，让它从墙的另一头掉下去。还是没动静。我把最后一块石头砌好，然后在这面新墙前摆放好死人的骸骨。

五十年来都没有人动过这些骸骨。





The Premature Burial


What is the most horrible thing that can happen to a person? It is not death, but premature burial – burial before death, burial while you are still alive . It is everyone's worst fear.

Life and Death. When does one end, and the other begin? With some illnesses, we cannot be sure. The body is cold and still, the heart has stopped, breathing has stopped... but this is not always the end of a life.

So it is not difficult to understand why premature burials sometimes happen. People still remember the story of a Baltimore woman, not long ago. She went to her bed with a sudden illness, and died soon after.

Or so her husband and her doctors thought.

Her heart was silent, her face grey, her eyes unseeing, her body as cold as the grave. She lay like this for three days, and then they buried her in the family vault.

Three years later, they opened the vault again for another coffin. When her husband pulled back the doors, something fell noisily into his arms.

It was his wife's skeleton, in her white burial clothes.

Doctors thought that the woman 'came alive' again about two days after her burial. She fought wildly to get out of her coffin, they said, until it fell and broke open. She then used a piece of the broken coffin to hit the metal doors of the vault. But nobody heard her, or her screams for help. Then perhaps she fainted, or even died of terror. Her burial dress caught on some metalwork, which stopped her falling. And so she stayed, standing dead at the door, for three years.

And so she stayed, standing dead at the door, for three years.

How often are people buried alive? Perhaps more often than we know. Think of the terror of it – the smell of the cold damp ground... the blackness of the night inside the narrow coffin... the long, long silence.

There are many true stories about premature burials. This is the one that happened to me.

For some years I had an illness called catalepsy. People who have catalepsy lie still and do not move for hours, or even days. They are still warm, and there is still some colour in their faces, but you have to listen hard to hear their heart or their breathing. Sometimes they can stay like this for weeks or months. And then it is difficult to find life in them.

When a cataleptic fit started, I always felt cold and ill, and then I fainted. After this, everything was black and silent. I always woke up very slowly – and I could never remember anything about the fit.

My body itself was well and strong, but I began to worry more and more. I talked all the time about coffins and graves. Day and night my thoughts were about premature burial. I was afraid of sleeping – and afraid of waking up in a grave. And when at last I did fall asleep, my dreams were about the terrors of death.

Once I dreamed that I was in a long cataleptic fit. A cold hand touched my face, and a voice in my ear said softly, 'Get up!'

I sat up. Everything was dark and I could not see the speaker. Where was I? The cold hand started to shake my arm, and the voice said, 'Get up! I said, get up!'

'Who are you?' I asked.

'I have no name in the place where I live,' said the voice. 'I was alive, but now I am dead, and a thing of darkness. I cannot sleep, cannot rest. How can you sleep so quietly? Get up! Come with me into the night, and I will show you the graves of the dead.'

And in my dream I looked into the open graves of every dead person in the world. I saw them, sleeping the long sleep of death in their burial clothes. But more terrible than the dead were the not-dead – those who were not sleeping, those who were fighting to get out of their coffins, those who died trying to escape.

While I stared, the voice spoke to me again. 'It is a most terrible thing to see, a most terrible thing...'

I remembered these dreams for a long time. I began to be afraid to leave my house. I did not want to be away from people who knew about my cataleptic fits. My friends, I thought, will never bury me alive by mistake. But then I began to worry about my friends...

So I made many changes in my family vault. Usually the doors opened from outside; now I could open them from inside. I made holes for air and light to come in, and places for food and water near the coffin. I bought a new coffin that was warm and comfortable. The top of the coffin was like a door, and I could open it from the inside. And on the ceiling of the vault I put a big bell, with a rope that came down to the coffin, and through a hole in the top, next to my hand.

I made many changes in my family vault.

But I was still afraid...

And I was right to be afraid. One day I woke up slowly, eyes still closed, feeling strangely tired. Then a sudden terror hit me. I tried to think, to remember... and then I felt that I was waking up not from sleep, but from a cataleptic fit. And cold fear filled me at once, fear that never leaves me, day or night.

For some minutes I lay still, but at last I opened my eyes. It was dark – all dark – the darkness of a night that would never end. I felt that I lay on hard wood, and when I moved my arms, they hit wood on both sides of me, and above my face.

I was lying in a coffin.

Then hope came. I pushed hard to open the top of my special coffin; it would not move. I tried to find the bell-rope; it was not there. And now hope left me. This was a hard wooden coffin, not my soft, comfortable one. And there was a smell of wetness, a smell of cold damp ground! I was not in my vault...

'Oh, dear God!' I thought. 'I have had a cataleptic fit, and I'm away from my home and with people who don't know me. They think that I'm dead, and they have buried me like a dog, in a cheap wooden coffin. Deep, deep in a grave with no name on it! No, no!'

I screamed – a long, wild, terrible scream.

'Hello? Hello?' a man's voice answered.

'What's the matter?' said a second man's voice.

'What's going on?' said a third man's voice. 'Why are you screaming like that?'

Then the men began to shake me. They did not wake me, because I was already awake, but the shaking helped me, and at once I remembered everything.

I was near Richmond, in Virginia, on a walk with a friend beside the James River. When night came, there was a sudden storm. We saw an old sailing boat at the side of the river, and hurried along to it.

'We must get out of this storm,' I said to my friend. 'The boat is very small, but it will keep us dry.'

So we slept there that night. The beds were very narrow, and were not much better than long wooden boxes in the side of the boat. They were only half a metre across, and half a metre from top to bottom. It was difficult to get into a bed that was so small, but I slept well... and dreamt.

In my dream – and of course it was a dream – my narrow wooden bed became my coffin. The damp smell came from the river and the wet ground after the rain. And the men who shook me to wake me up were the workmen on the boat.

In my dream my narrow wooden bed became my coffin.

It was a dream, yes. But the terror was real, and terror can make people ill, or even kill them. But something good came from this terrible adventure. After that day I stopped thinking about death and burial. I went walking and riding, and breathed the free air. My fears went away, and my catalepsy went with them.

It is easy to understand the terror of a living burial, the terror of waking inside a closed coffin. But we must put away thoughts like these, and close the door on them, or fear and worry will send us to an early grave.

premature adj. happening earlier than expected 过早的，提前的

premature

burial n. the act of burying a dead body 埋葬

burial

unseeing adj. not noticing anything even though your eyes are open 视而不见的

unseeing

coffin n. a long box in which a dead person is buried 棺材

coffin

skeleton n. the bones inside a person's body 骨骼

skeleton

metalwork n. objects made by shaping metal 金属制品

metalwork

catalepsy n. an illness where people stay asleep and do not move 强直性昏厥症

catalepsy

fit n. a time when you cannot control your behaviour 一阵发作

fit

未亡先葬


一个人最怕的是什么事情？不是死亡，而是未亡先葬——死亡之前 的葬礼，也就是在你还活着 的时候就将你埋葬。这是所有人最害怕的事情。

生与死。一个何时结束，另一个又何时开始？在患有某些疾病的情况下，我们无法确知。身体冰冷僵硬，心脏停止跳动，呼吸也停止了……然而这并不总是意味着生命的结束。

所以，偶尔会出现未亡先葬的情况也就不难理解了。人们还记得，不久前那个巴尔的摩妇女的故事。她身染急病，卧床不起，很快就去世了。

至少她丈夫和医生们是这么认为的。

她的心脏静止了，脸色灰暗，眼神涣散，身体像坟墓一样冰冷。她像这样躺了三天，然后他们就把她埋进了家族的墓室中。

三年之后，他们打开墓室，准备放入另一具棺材。当她的丈夫拉开大门时，有什么东西哗啦啦地倒入他的怀中。

那是他妻子的骸骨，上面还套着白色的葬服。

医生们认为，那个妇女大约是在葬礼两天之后又“复活”的。他们说，她奋力挣扎想要从棺材里出来，直到棺材倒地摔了开来。然后她用一块棺木碎片敲打墓室的金属大门。可是，没有人听到她的敲打声或求救的尖叫声。后来，或许她晕了过去，甚至死于恐惧。她的葬服钩到了某个金属物品上，使她没有跌倒。于是，她就待在那里，保持着站姿死在了门口，整整三年。

人们被活埋的几率有多少？或许比我们知道的几率还要大些。想想那样有多么恐怖吧——阴冷潮湿的地面散发的味道……在狭窄的棺木中不见天日的黑暗……无比漫长的死寂。

关于未亡先葬的真实故事有很多。下面就是发生在我身上的故事。

多年来，我患有一种叫做强直性昏厥症的疾病。强直性昏厥症患者会静静地躺着，好几个小时甚至好几天一动不动。他们还有体温，脸上也依然有血色，但是你得特别努力听，才能听到他们的心跳和呼吸。有时候，他们会数周甚至数月保持这样的状态。这样一来，要发现他们还活着实在并非易事。

当强直性昏厥症刚开始发作时，我总是会感到浑身发冷，特别难受，然后我就晕倒了。在这之后，一切都变得黑暗和寂静。我总是苏醒得特别缓慢——我从来也不记得发作时到底发生了什么。

我原本体格强健，可我开始越来越担心。我的谈话总是离不开棺材和坟墓。我日日夜夜想着未亡先葬的事。我害怕睡觉——害怕在坟墓中醒来。而当最后我终于睡着时，我的梦中充斥着对死亡的恐惧。

一次，我梦见自己的强直性昏厥症发作了很长时间。一只冰冷的手摸着我的脸，一个声音在我耳边轻声说：“起来呀！”

我坐了起来。周围黑漆漆的，我看不到说话的人。我在哪里？那只冰冷的手开始摇晃我的胳膊，那个声音说：“起来呀！我说，起来呀！”

“你是谁？”我问。

“在我的世界里，我没有名字。”那个声音说，“我以前活着，而现在我已经死了，变成了一个黑暗的东西。我不能睡觉，也不能安歇。你 怎么能这么安静地睡觉？起来呀！跟我一起进入黑夜，我将向你展示那些死人的坟墓。”

在梦中，我看到了世界上所有死人的坟墓打开时的样子。我看到他们穿着葬服，长眠于死亡之中。可是比死人更可怕的是还没死的人——那些没有长眠的人，那些正奋力挣扎想要爬出棺材的人，那些在试图逃生时死去的人。

正当我凝神细看时，那个声音又对我说：“最可怕的事莫过于看见这些，最可怕的事……”

我久久不能忘却这些梦境。我开始害怕离开我的房子。我不想离开那些知道我患有强直性昏厥症的人。我想，我的朋友们永远不会误将我活埋。可接下来，我又开始担心我的朋友们……

于是，我对我家族的墓室进行了多项改建。通常墓室的门是从外面打开的；现在我可以从里面把门打开。我凿了一些洞，好让空气和光亮能进来，还在棺材附近布置了一些放食物和水的地方。我买了一副既温暖又舒适的新棺材。棺材盖就像门一样，我能从里面把它打开。我在墓室的顶部安了一个大钟，钟上挂着一条绳子垂到棺材上，然后那绳子穿过棺材盖上的一个洞，刚好到我的手边。

可我还是害怕……

我害怕是有道理的。一天，我慢慢醒来，双眼还闭着，我感到异常疲倦。然后一阵突如其来的恐惧向我袭来。我试图思索、回忆……然后我感到我不是从睡梦中苏醒，而是在强直性昏厥症发作之后醒来的。我心中一下子充满了冰冷的恐惧感，这一恐惧从未离开过我，无论是白天还是黑夜。

我静静地躺了几分钟，不过最终我睁开了双眼。四周黑乎乎的——一片漆黑——绵延无尽的夜晚的黑暗。我感到自己躺在坚硬的木头上面，我一挪动双臂，便碰到了身体两侧和脸上方的木头。

我躺在一副棺材里。

然后希望降临了。我用力想要推开我那副特制棺材的盖子，可是推不动。我试着寻找那条连着大钟的绳索，可它不在那儿。现在希望离我而去。这是一副坚硬的木头棺材，不是我那副柔软舒适的棺材。而且这里有一种潮湿的味道，一种阴冷潮湿的泥土味！我不 在我的墓室里……

“啊，天啊！”我想，“我的强直性昏厥症发作了，我不在家里，和一些不认识我的人在一起。他们以为我死了，于是把我像一条狗一样埋了，埋在一副廉价的木头棺材里，深深地埋在坟墓里，上面连名字都没有！啊，不！”

我尖叫起来——一声长长的、歇斯底里的、可怕的尖叫。

“喂？喂？”一个男人的声音回应。

“发生什么事了？”又一个男人的声音响了起来。

“怎么回事？”另一个男人说，“你为什么喊成这样？”

然后那些男人开始动手摇晃我。他们没有把我摇醒，因为我本来就已经醒了，可是那摇晃也帮了我的忙，我一下子想起了发生的所有事情。

我在弗吉尼亚州的里士满附近，和一个朋友在詹姆斯河边散步。夜幕降临时，突降暴雨。我们在河边看到一艘旧帆船，急忙沿着河岸跑了过去。

“我们得避避雨。”我对朋友说，“这艘船很小，不过它能让我们不被淋湿。”

于是当晚我们就睡在那里。床铺很狭窄，不比放在船侧的那些长长的木头箱子好多少。床铺仅有半米宽、半米长。要想钻进这样狭窄的一张床铺不是件易事，但我睡得很香……而且还做梦了。

在我的梦里——那当然是 一个梦——狭窄的木床变成了我的棺材。那潮湿的味道其实是靠近河水和雨后潮湿的土地所带来的。而把我摇醒的男人其实是船上的工人。

那是一个梦，是的。然而那种恐惧 却是真实的，恐惧能让人生病，甚至能置人于死地。然而这次恐怖的经历却有好的结局。那天之后，我不再想死亡和葬礼了。我出去散步、骑马，呼吸自由的空气。我的恐惧消失了，随之而去的还有我的强直性昏厥症。

不难理解为什么人们会恐惧被活埋以及在密闭的棺材中醒来。但我们必须把这些想法抛开，并将它们拒之门外，否则恐惧和担忧就会把我们早早送入坟墓。





The Meeting


How well I remember that meeting! I was in Venice, that city of dark secrets and silent waters. It was midnight, and the midsummer air was hot and still, the canals silent and empty.

I was coming home in a gondola along the Grand Canal when I heard a sudden scream – a woman's scream. I jumped up, and the boatman turned my gondola to go under the Bridge of Sighs and past the great house of the Mentoni family. Lights were on in all the windows, and people were running down the steps to the water. The canal was suddenly as light as day.

'What has happened?' I called out.

'A child fell from its mother's arms,' came the answer. 'From a high window of the house.'

I stopped to watch, full of fear for the child. Already people were swimming in the water, calling, shouting, looking everywhere.

At the doorway to the palace stood the child's young mother, the Marchesa di Mentoni, the loveliest woman in all of Venice.

She stood alone. But she was not looking into the water for her lost child. She was staring across the canal at the building opposite. Why? I asked myself. What could she see there, in the dark corners of that old building? Or was she afraid to look into the canal, afraid to see the dead body of her child in the dark waters?

On the steps behind the Marchesa, higher up, stood her old husband, Mentoni himself, the head of the rich and famous Mentoni family. He gave orders to the servants who were looking for his child, but he looked bored, bored to death.

Then, from one of the dark corners outside the building opposite, a man stepped into the light and immediately jumped into the canal.

A minute later, he stood next to the Marchesa with the living, breathing child in his arms. The light from the windows fell on his face, and everyone could see him.

The young man stood next to the Marchesa with the child in his arms.

He was a very famous young man – as beautiful as a Greek god, with his black eyes, and his wild black hair. We were not close friends, but I knew him a little, from my time in Venice.

He did not speak. And to my great surprise the Marchesa did not take her child in her arms and hold him close. Other hands took the child and carried him away, into the house. And the Marchesa? Her eyes were wet with tears, and her hands were shaking.

Then old Mentoni turned and went into the house. The Marchesa took the young man's hand in both of hers, and stared into his face. Her eyes were dark with terror, and her face as white as the moonlight that danced on the waters of the canal.

She spoke softly, hurriedly, the tears running down that wild, white face. Below the steps, in my gondola, I heard every word.

'You have won,' she said, 'you have won... and you are right... there is only one answer... we cannot go on... we agreed the way, and now the time has come... we shall meet... one hour after sunrise...'

 　　 　　

Everyone went away, lights went out, and my young friend now stood alone on the steps. He was white-faced and shaking. He looked around and saw me, and remembered me at once.

There were no other boats on the canal at that time, so I took him home in my gondola. We talked of unimportant things, and then he asked me to visit him the next morning.

'Come at sunrise,' he said. 'Yes, at sunrise! Not a minute later. Please!'

I thought his words were a little strange, but they were not the first strange words on that strange night.

I agreed to go, and arrived at sunrise. His apartment was in one of those very old buildings which look down on the Grand Canal, near the Rialto Bridge. The rooms were large, and full of beautiful things from Italy, Greece, Egypt... There were pictures, furniture, carpets, things made of black stone, and red stone, of glass, of gold, of silver... Soft music was playing somewhere, and the early morning sunlight danced in through the windows.

There was too much to look at, too much light, too many colours, too many beautiful things. I stared around in silent surprise, and my young friend laughed.

'Oh, I am sorry for laughing,' he said. 'But you look so surprised! And sometimes a man must laugh or die. How wonderful to die laughing, don't you agree?'

He half-fell into a low chair, still laughing in that strange way.

'I have other apartments,' he went on, 'but none like this one. You are one of the very few people who have seen it. Come – I have some famous pictures here. You must see them.'

He wanted to show me everything. He was tired, but also excited. And perhaps afraid too. I could not be sure. But something was worrying him. Sometimes he stopped speaking in the middle of a sentence and listened. To what? The sound of another visitor on the stairs? To words inside his head?

During one of these silent moments, I turned away and saw a book of Italian songs on a small table. The open page was wet with new tears. And on the opposite, empty page, written in English and in my young friend's handwriting, were these lines:

You were my sun, my moon, my stars,

My life I gave to you.

We danced by day, we sang by night,

A love so sweet and true.

Now all my days I spend in darkness,

The fire of life is cold,

I see no more your quick bright smile,

Your hand I cannot hold.

They took you from our English clouds

To a blue Italian sky,

To marry an old man, rich in gold,

And now my heart will die.

Under these lines were written a place and date. The place was London. This surprised me, because when I first met him in Venice, I asked him, 'When you were living in London, did you ever meet the Marchesa di Mentoni? She lived in that city for some years before she married.'

To this he replied, 'I have never been to London.'

For a rich young Englishman I thought this was strange, but I thought little of it at the time.

He did not see me with this book, and now turned to me again.

'One more picture to see,' he said. 'Come.'

He took me to a small room. There was just one picture in it – a portrait of the Marchesa di Mentoni.

She stood, smiling down at us, as beautiful as ever, her dark eyes full of life.

My young friend stood, staring at the portrait for a long time. Then, at last, he said, 'Come, let's drink!'

My young friend stood, staring at the portrait for a long time.

He went away to find wine, and I turned back to the book of Italian songs on the little table. Perhaps there were answers to these mysteries about my friend in this book. I turned the pages, and found, hidden at the back of the book, part of a letter. It was in a woman's handwriting.

... You say that you love me, more than the world, more than life itself. But how much is that? How can I be sure? Will you do this for me? Will you save from death my child –my child, by him ?

him

If you do this, then I will know that your words are true. And I will take your hand for one last time... We shall go together through that last door...

I heard a sound, and closed the book hurriedly. My friend came back into the room, carrying two large silver goblets, full to the top with wine. He gave one to me.

'It is early, but let's drink,' he said again. At that moment a clock sounded the hour. 'One hour after sunrise,' he said softly. 'Yes, it is early. But what does it matter? Let us drink to the sun, yes, the sun!'

He drank his goblet of wine very quickly.

'To dreams,' he said. 'All my life I have dreamed. I have made myself a home of dreams, here in the heart of Venice. Where could be better?' He put his empty goblet down on the table. 'And now I am ready for the land of real dreams. Soon, I shall be there...'

'All my life I have dreamed...'

He stopped and listened – but to what, I did not know. Then he lifted his head and said:

Wait for me there! I will be sure

　To meet you at that last dark door.

On the last word he fell into a chair, and his eyes closed.

At the same moment there were feet on the stairs, and a loud knocking at the door. A young servant from the Mentoni house ran into the room.

'The Marchesa! I come from the Marchesa!' the boy cried.'Poison! She has taken poison! She is dead !'

I ran to the chair and tried to wake my young friend, to tell him this strange and terrible news.

But he did not move. His hand was cold to my touch, and his face white and still.

He, too, was dead .

I fell back against the table in terror, and my hand touched my friend's wine goblet, which stood there. It was now blackened inside, and from it came a sweet, sickly smell – the smell of poison.

And in a second I understood everything.

canal n. a river made by people for boats to travel on 运河

canal

gondola n. a long narrow boat with a flat bottom and high points at each end, used on the canals in Venice in Italy （意大利威尼斯运河中的）凤尾船

gondola

doorway n. the space where a door opens into a room or building 出入口，门道

doorway

opposite adj. on the other side of the same area, often directly across from it 对面的

opposite

bored adj. tired and impatient because you do not think something is interesting, or because you have nothing to do 厌烦的，不感兴趣的

bored

apartment n. a group of rooms in a building where you can live 一套住房，公寓套间

apartment

furniture n. tables, beds, chairs etc 家具

furniture

goblet n. a cup without handles for drinking wine 高脚酒杯

goblet

poison n. something that can kill you if you eat or drink it 毒药

poison

密会


那次密会的情景仍然历历在目！我当时在威尼斯，一座充满黑暗秘密的城市，一座寂静河流密布的城市。那是个仲夏的午夜，天气闷热无风，运河中十分安静，没有任何船只。

我乘着一艘凤尾船回家，正沿着大运河航行时，突然听到一声尖叫——一个女人的尖叫。我跳了起来，船夫掉转船头从叹息桥下穿过，经过了门托尼家族的大房子。所有窗户里的灯都亮着，人们跑下台阶，来到水边。运河突然亮如白昼。

“发生了什么事？”我大声喊。

“一个孩子从他母亲的手中掉下去了。”有人回答，“是从房子高处的一扇窗户那里掉下去的。”

我停下来观望，心中满是对那个孩子的担忧。已经有人下水了。他们不断呼喊并四处寻找他。

在那座豪宅的门口站着那个孩子年轻的母亲，门托尼侯爵夫人。她是威尼斯最可爱的女人。

她独自一人站在那里。可她没有看着水面寻找她丢失的孩子。她的眼睛盯着运河对岸的建筑。为什么？我问自己。她能在那儿看到什么，在那古老建筑的黑暗角落里？还是她不敢看河道，害怕看到漆黑的河流里自己孩子的死尸？

侯爵夫人身后的台阶高处站着她年迈的丈夫门托尼——门托尼这个豪门望族的族长。他给寻找孩子的仆人们下达着命令，然而他看起来很厌烦，一副烦得要命的表情。

接着，一个男人从对岸建筑外的黑暗角落里走到了灯光下，然后迅速跳进了运河。

一分钟后，他抱着活生生的、还在喘气的孩子站在了侯爵夫人的身边。窗户里的灯光照到他的脸上，每个人都能看见他。

他是一个很出名的年轻人——他像希腊神一样英俊，有一双黑色的眼睛和一头桀骜不驯的黑发。虽然我们不是密友，但我在威尼斯期间对他略有了解。

他没有说话。让我十分吃惊的是，侯爵夫人没有把孩子抱入怀中紧紧搂住。其他人接过了孩子，把他抱进了房子里。而侯爵夫人呢？她眼眶湿润，双手颤抖。

然后老门托尼转身走进了房子里。侯爵夫人双手抓住了那个年轻男子的手，盯着他的脸庞。她幽暗的眼神充满了恐惧，她的脸苍白如同运河水上舞动的月光。

她匆忙地小声说着什么，泪珠从她那急切而苍白的脸上滚落下来。在台阶下面，在我的凤尾船里，我听得一字不落。

“你赢了，”她说，“你赢了……你是对的……只有一个答案……我们不能继续下去了……我们同意那个办法，现在时机到了……日出一小时后……我们再见……”

 　　 　　

人们都离开了，灯也都熄灭了，只剩下我那位年轻的朋友独自站在台阶上。他脸色苍白，浑身颤抖。他四下张望，看到我，并立刻认出了我。

这会儿运河上已经没有别的船了，于是我让他坐我的凤尾船回家。我们聊着无关紧要的事情，而后他邀请我第二天早晨去拜访他。

“请日出的时候过来。”他说，“是的，日出的时候！一分钟也别晚。求你了！”

我觉得他的话有些奇怪，但在那个奇怪的晚上，那不是我听到的第一句奇怪的话。

我答应他，并在日出的时候到了他家。他的公寓位处里亚尔托桥附近的古老建筑楼群之中，那里俯瞰着大运河。房间很宽敞，摆满了意大利、希腊和埃及等地产的精美物品……有画作、家具、地毯，还有由黑色石头、红色石头、玻璃、黄金和白银制成的东西……不知哪儿演奏着轻柔的音乐，清晨的阳光透过窗户涌了进来。

这里让人目不睱接，太多的亮光，太多的色彩，太多美丽的事物了。我四下里细细观看，默默惊叹着，我年轻的朋友则哈哈大笑。

“呀，抱歉，我不该笑的。”他说，“可你看上去那么惊讶！有时候人必须 笑，不然就得死掉。笑着死去是多美妙的事情啊，你不这么认为吗？”

他半跌入一把矮椅上，而他的笑容依旧那么诡异。

“我还有其他住房。”他接着说，“但是没有哪一套像这里一样。只有为数不多的人见过这里，你是其中之一。来——我这里有些名画。你一定得瞧瞧。”

他想向我展示这里的一切。他既疲惫又兴奋，或许还有些害怕。我说不准。然而一定有什么让他忧心的事。有时候他话说了一半就停了下来，侧耳倾听。听什么呢？楼梯上其他访者的脚步声？还是听他自己头脑里的话语？

在一次这样的静默时刻，我转身看到一张小桌子上摆着一本意大利歌曲书。翻开的书页不久前刚被泪水打湿过。在旁边的空白的书页上，有我这位年轻朋友的笔迹，他用英语写了几行诗句：

你是我的太阳，我的月亮，我的星辰，

我愿把我的生命献给你。

我们白天跳舞，我们夜晚歌唱，

爱情如此甜蜜而真实。

如今我的日子坠入黑暗，

生命之火冷却下来，

我再也见不到你常挂在脸上的灿烂笑容，

再也握不到你的手。

他们把你从我们英格兰的云朵下

带到了意大利蓝色的天空下。

让你嫁给一个金银满屋的老人，

而如今，我心将死。

在这些诗行下面写着地点和日期。地点是伦敦。这让我有些吃惊，因为我第一次在威尼斯遇见他时，我曾问他：“你住在伦敦时见过门托尼侯爵夫人吗？她出嫁前曾在那里住过几年。”

对这个问题，他回答：“我从没去过伦敦。”

他是个富有的年轻英国人，没去过伦敦让我觉得有些奇怪，但我当时没有多想。

他没注意到我在看这本书，这会儿又转向了我。

“再看一幅画。”他说，“来吧。”

他把我带进了一个小房间。房间里只有一幅画——门托尼侯爵夫人的肖像。

她站着，微笑着俯视我们，美丽一如往昔，她那黑色的双眸充满生机。

我那年轻的朋友站在那里，对着那幅肖像凝视了好长一段时间。最后，他终于开口说：“来，我们喝点酒！”

他离开去找葡萄酒，而我转身去看小桌子上那本意大利歌曲书。或许这本书中有我朋友一切秘密的答案。我翻着书，发现在书的后面藏着一封不完整的信。是一个女人的笔迹。

……你说你爱我，胜过爱这个世界，胜过生命本身。可那是有多爱呢？我怎么能确信呢？你会为我做这件事吗？你会从死神手中救出我的孩子吗——我和他 的孩子？

如果你能做到这件事，那么我就知道你的话是真的。我将最后一次握住你的手……我们将一起跨过那最后一扇门……

我听到声响，赶忙把书合上。我的朋友返回了房间，端着两个银质的大高脚酒杯，里面盛满了葡萄酒。他递给了我一杯。

“时间还早，不过我们还是喝一杯吧。”他又说了一遍。就在那时，整点的钟声响了起来。“日出之后的一个小时。”他轻声说，“是的，时间还 早。可那又有什么关系？让我们为太阳而干杯，是的，为太阳！”

他迅速地喝完了高脚杯里的酒。

“为梦想。”他说，“我这一生都在做梦。我为自己建造了一个梦的家园，在这里，威尼斯的中心。还有哪里能比这里更好呢？”他把空酒杯放在了桌上。“现在我准备好踏上真正的 梦乡了。很快，我就要到那儿去了……”

他停下来，侧耳倾听——但我不知道他到底在听什么。然后他抬起头说：

“在那儿等我！我一定会

在最后的那扇黑暗之门与你相聚。”

说完最后一个词，他跌坐在一把椅子上，闭上了眼睛。

与此同时，台阶上传来脚步声，有人重重地敲响了门。门托尼家一个年轻的仆人跑进了房间里。

“侯爵夫人！我是侯爵夫人派来的！”那男孩叫着，“毒药！她喝了毒药！她死了 ！”

我跑到椅子旁边，想要把我年轻的朋友叫醒，告诉他这一不寻常而又可怕的消息。

可他一动不动。我感觉到他的手冰冷，看到他的脸色苍白，毫无表情。

他也死了 。

我吓得往后退，撞到了桌子上，我的手碰到了朋友放在桌上的酒杯。现在酒杯里面已经变黑了，传出一股甜腻恶心的味道——毒药的味道。

我一下子明白了一切。





The Oval Portrait


I was in the Italian mountains when I fell from my horse and hurt myself. I needed to rest but in that wild, lonely place there was only one house. It was a fine old building, very big, but dark and empty. My servant, Pedro, broke the lock on a door and helped me inside.

I looked around at the furniture, the carpets, the paintings.'The people who lived here,' I thought, 'left only a short time ago.'

We used one of the smaller rooms in a far corner of the building. There were a great many modern paintings on the walls, and more in the dark corners of the room. It was getting dark and Pedro lit the tall candles on the table by my bed. There was a book on the table, and I began reading it. It described and told the story of each of the pictures on the walls.

Midnight came and went, and I moved the candles closer to me, to give a better light for reading. But the light also fell on one of the darker corners of the room – and there I saw for the first time an oval portrait of a beautiful young woman, just her head and shoulders. It was a very fine painting, but there was also something different about it, something strange, something... I did not know what it was, but I could not take my eyes away from that portrait. For about an hour I sat in the bed, staring at it.

It was a very fine painting, but there was also something strange about it.

And at last I found its secret. It was in her face, in her eyes.'She could easily be... alive ,' I thought. 'She looks alive. Those eyes...'

Suddenly I felt cold, and a great fear filled me. My hands began to shake, and I had to look away.

Carefully, I moved the candles again until the light no longer fell in that corner, and the portrait went back into darkness. I found the place in the book which told the story of the oval portrait, and began to read.

 　　 　　

She was a young woman of great beauty, and even more beautiful when she was smiling and laughing.

It was a dark day when she saw, and loved, and married the painter. He was already famous for his art, and was always studying and working. The great love of his life was his work, his painting.

His beautiful young wife was playful, full of life and light and smiles, as happy and as loving as a child. But she learned to fear and then to hate everything about painting. Her husband's work was her enemy, because it kept him away from her, hour after hour.

So it was a terrible thing for her when he said he wanted to paint her portrait. But she agreed because she loved him and wanted to please him.

For many weeks she sat in a dark high room where the light from above fell onto the painting and onto her. Day after day, she sat still and silent, not moving, not speaking. But she went on smiling and smiling because she saw that the painter loved his work so much.

He painted hour after hour, not speaking a word, thinking only of his work. Those who saw the portrait looked and said softly, 'It is your finest work. Oh, you do love her dearly! We can see this in the portrait.'

And it was true. But he did not look at her now. He went on working, more and more wildly, thinking and dreaming only of the portrait and never of his wife. Day by day she looked more and more unhappy, but he did not see it. Her face and body were now thin, but he did not see it. He took the warm colour from her face, and painted it into the face in his portrait – but he could not, he would not see it.

He painted hour after hour, not speaking a word, thinking only of his work.

After many weeks, he finished. One last touch of paint on the mouth, a last touch to the eye...

The painter stood back and looked at the portrait of his wife. How wonderful it was! But while he stared, he began to shake and his face went white. Then he cried out with a loud voice, 'This is LIFE itself! She LIVES in this portrait!' and he turned suddenly to look at the woman he loved. She was dead!

playful adj. very active, happy, and wanting to have fun 活泼的

playful

touch n. a small detail that improves or completes something （画笔等的）轻触，一笔

touch

椭圆形的画像


我身处意大利的群山之中，却从马上掉下来，受了伤。我需要休息，可是在那人迹罕至的蛮荒之地只有一座房子。那是一座颇为精美的老房子，房子很大，但是阴暗且空荡荡的。我的仆人佩德罗把门锁撬开，扶我走了进去。

我打量着四周的家具、地毯和画作。“住在这里的人，”我想，“是不久前才离开的。”

我们占用了房子偏远角落的一个小房间。墙上挂着很多现代画作，房间黑暗的角落里还有更多的画。天色渐暗，佩德罗点亮了我床边桌子上高高的蜡烛。桌上摆着一本书，我开始读了起来。书里描述的都是墙上一幅幅画作的故事。

午夜来而复去，我把蜡烛向自己这边挪了挪，好让光线更亮一些，便于读书。而烛光也落在了房间一个比较黑暗的角落里——在那儿，我初次看见了一幅年轻美人的椭圆形画像，画像上只有她的头部和肩膀。那幅画笔触精细，但与此同时也让人感觉有些不一样，有些奇怪，有些……我不知道是哪里不对劲，但我无法把目光从画像上移开。我坐在床上盯着画像，看了大概有一个小时。

最后我终于发现了它的秘密。秘密就在她的脸上，在她的眼睛里。“她简直就像……活的 一样。”我想，“她看上去 栩栩如生。那双眼睛……”

突然我感到浑身发冷，心里充满了巨大的恐惧。我的双手开始发抖，我赶紧把目光移开。

小心翼翼地，我再次挪动蜡烛，直到烛光再也照不到那个角落，那幅肖像又回到黑暗之中。我在书中翻到了讲述这幅椭圆形画像的故事之处，便开始读了起来。

 　　 　　

她是位美若天仙的年轻女子，她一笑，那种美丽就更增添几分。

一个黑暗的日子里，她与一位画家相遇、相爱，并结为了夫妻。这位画家当时已因画作闻名，他总是在学习和作画。他生命中的至爱就是他的工作，他的画。

他年轻美丽的妻子天性活泼，充满朝气，开朗爱笑，像孩子一样快乐，对一切都充满了爱。可是她学会了害怕，学会了憎恨一切跟画画有关的事。她丈夫的工作是她的敌人，因为工作使他连续好几个小时不能与她在一起。

所以，那个提议——他说他想给她画幅肖像——对她来说实在是件可怕的事。但是她同意了，因为她爱他，想要让他高兴。

长达好几周的时间里，她坐在一个高顶的暗室里，灯光从顶上照射到画作和她的身上。日复一日，她静静地坐着，一动不动，一声不吭。但她一直微笑着，因为她看到画家是如此热爱他的工作。

他连续几个小时画着画，一句话也不说，心里想的只有他的画。那些看到肖像的人都边观赏边轻声说：“这是你最好的作品。噢，你是那么爱她！我们能从肖像上看出来。”

的确如此。可现在他不再看她了。他继续画着，越来越痴狂，心里想的、晚上梦的只有那幅肖像，没有他的妻子。日复一日，她看上去越来越不开心，可是他没有看出来。她的脸庞和身体变得瘦削，可是他没有看出来。他从她脸上取走了温暖的色彩，把它画到了肖像里的那张脸庞上——可是他没有看出来，也不想看出来。

数周之后，他完成了画作。最后给嘴唇点上一抹颜色，给眼睛涂上一抹颜色……

画家后退几步，看着他妻子的肖像。它是多么美妙呀！可就在他凝视肖像时，他开始浑身发抖，脸色也变得苍白。然后，他大声喊了起来：“这就是生命 ！她活在 这幅肖像里！”然后，他突然转身去看他爱的那个女人。她已经死了！

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1 Read the story introduction and the back cover . How much do you know now about the stories? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) These stories will make you smile.

YES □／NO □

2) The man in Toledo is in prison.

YES □／NO □

3) Montresor wants to go to a carnival party.

YES □／NO □

4) Fortunato finds terror under the ground.

YES □／NO □

5) One man is afraid that they will bury him before he is dead.

YES □／NO □

6) When the two lovers meet, it is a happy day.

YES □／NO □

7) The painter's wife is a happy person.

YES □／NO □

2 Here are the titles of the five stories. Which of the things in the list below belong to each story (two for each story)? Can you guess?

a book about paintings / a broken coffin / a chain / an empty house / a letter / an old sailing boat / a sharp blade /some bottles of wine / some rats / Venice

The Pit and the Pendulum __________ __________

The Cask of Amontillado __________ __________

The Premature Burial __________ __________

The Meeting __________ __________

The Oval Portrait __________ __________

3 Can you guess what will happen in the stories? Choose endings for each of these sentences.

1) The man in the prison...

a) will fall into the pit.

b) will die of terror.

c) will leave the prison alive.

2) After Fortunato and Montresor go to the vaults...

a) only Fortunato will leave alive.

b) only Montresor will leave alive.

c) nobody will leave alive.

3) The man who is afraid of burial alive...

a) will lose his fear.

b) will die of terror.

c) will go mad.

4) The two young lovers...

a) will both die.

b) will run away together.

c) will kill someone.

5) When the painter finishes his work...

a) he will die.

b) his wife will die.

c) he and his wife will die.

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1 Perhaps this is what some of the characters in the stories are thinking. Complete each passage with the words from the list. Which characters are they, and what has just happened in the story?

black / cannot / child / enough / have / lose / must / or / will

1) 'There! I _____ done it! My _____ – my dearest son – is in the water, and I _____ turn back now. But _____ he come? Does he truly love me _____? The night is so _____, and the water is so cold. He _____ come soon – _____ I will _____ my child, my love, my hope...'

This is _____, and ________

behind / death / door / feel / him / moving / once / pit / rats / somebody

2) 'Are there any more prisoners here? What's _____ these walls? They _____ hot – and, yes, they're _____! Is that the_____? Quickly – we must open it at _____! Ugh! There are _____ everywhere, big and fat. And that smell – it's the smell of _____. But look – there's _____ in the middle, near the _____. Can I get to _____ in time?'

This is _____, and ________

anywhere / chain / doing / hand / here / perhaps / wet / understand

3) 'Why has he put this _____ around me? I don't _____. _____ it's a game. Ha ha! He's telling me to put my_____ on the wall – yes, it's very _____. But where's that Amontillado? He said the cask was in _____, but I can't see it _____. And what's he _____ now?'

This is _____, and ________

because / does / front / great / minute / nearer / soon / work / worse

4) 'Can't he see? It is happening in _____ of his eyes. Every day I feel _____ – I am getting _____ to death every _____. He looks at me all the time, but he _____ not see me. Now I know that his _____ love is not me – it is his _____. And _____ he loves his work more than me, I will _____ die...'

This is _____, and ________

boat / coffin / hands / remember / shaking / terrible / thank / wonderful

5) 'What's happening? Why are you _____ me? Take your_____ off me! Am I – no, I'm alive! _____ God! They haven't buried me. Now I _____ – we came onto this _____ yesterday. This is a wooden bed, not a _____. Oh, _____ day! Perhaps now this _____ fear will leave me...'

This is _____ who ________, and ________

2 What did the young Englishman say to the Marchesa before the story begins? Put their conversation in the right order, and write in the speakers' names. The Englishman speaks first (number 4).

1) _____ 'I will do anything in the world to show you how much I love you. Ask me anything – anything at all.'

2) _____ 'Yes. Then I will meet you at that last dark door.'

3) _____ 'I can never do that. If I leave him, my father will kill me.'

4) _____ 'Must you leave? Stay with me a little longer!'

5) _____ 'Ah yes, nothing can come between us then. But –how can I be sure of your love?'

6) _____ 'And then, when I have done what you ask, will you agree?'

7) _____ 'Then there is no hope for us. But if we cannot be together in life... there is another answer.'

8) _____ 'Very well, I will think of something. I will write to you – wait for my letter.'

9) _____ 'I love you more than life itself. And in death we will always be together.'

10) _____ 'No, I must go. You know that I want to be with you, but my husband...'

11) _____ 'Another answer? You mean... together in death? Do you really mean that? You love me so much?'

12) _____ 'Ah, your husband. Dearest, we cannot go on like this. Leave your husband! Come away with me!'

3 Use the clues to complete this crossword with words from the story (all the words go across). Then find two hidden words (four letters or more) in the crossword.

1) A little bit wet.

2) An alcoholic drink made from grapes.

3) A lot of metal rings joined together.

4) Water that comes from the eyes when you cry.

5) To take in air through your nose and mouth.

6) The part of a knife that cuts.

7) A party in the streets with music, singing, and dancing.

8) A place where a dead person is buried.

9) Like the shape of an egg.

10) The part of the body that pushes the blood around.

The hidden words are __________ and __________.

4 Here is a new illustration for one of the stories. Find the best place to put it, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in the story ________.

1) Where has the young boy come from?

2) What news does he bring?

3) What has the narrator just realised?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: ___________________________

5 Here are some new titles for the stories. Which titles go with which stories? Which titles do you prefer, and why? Now make up a title of your own for each story.

Love and Death in Venice

The Bed and the Blade

Montresor's Joke

A Picture of Life

Fire and Fear

The Last Wall

Painted to Death

Together in Death

The Only Answer

The Not-Dead

To the Edge of Death

Beautiful Dead Eyes

Everyone's Worst Fear

Carnival Terror

A Dream of Coffins

6 Which story did you find most frightening? Why? For you, which story was the most interesting, and which was the saddest? Why?

7 Look at the list below and imagine that you have to invite one of these characters to a party. Which one will you invite, and why?

The prisoner in Toledo

Montresor

The man who is afraid of burial alive

Fortunato

The young Englishman

The Marchesa

The Painter

The Painter's Wife

CONTENTS

乔纳森·哈克的日记

明娜的故事

乔纳森·哈克的日记

有斑点的带子

波希米亚丑闻

五个桔核

免费

京权图字：01-2002-6587

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

神秘女人阿加莎·克里斯蒂：英汉对照／（英）埃斯科特（Escott, J.）著；刘姗姗译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2003.9（2014.3 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Agatha Christie, Woman of Mystery

ISBN 978-7-5600-3500-0

Ⅰ．神…　Ⅱ．①埃…　②刘…　Ⅲ．英语—对照读物，传记—英、汉　Ⅳ．H319.4：K

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2003）第045927号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 易　璐

责任编辑：

封面设计： 刘　莎

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

版　　次： 2003年9月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-3500-0

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

内容简介


很多人都喜欢读神秘的谋杀案，因为它们都是些难解之谜。侦探在书末才会把凶手的名字公布于众，而在此之前我们能否猜出凶手的名字呢？摔坏的椅子只是一次意外，还是一条重要线索呢？凶手是如何进入房子的呢？他或她难道有钥匙吗？桌子上为何有三个 咖啡杯？

阿加莎·克里斯蒂写的神秘谋杀案世界闻名。她一共写过70多本书，销售量达千万册。她的小说还被拍成了多部电视剧和电影。她笔下的侦探，赫尔克里·波洛和马普尔小姐，也都大名鼎鼎——一个是身材矮胖，留着黑色胡子的比利时人，一个是身材矮小却非常可爱的老太太，她会看见、听到并且记住一切。

这本书写的就是阿加莎·克里斯蒂的生活。她是怎样的一个人？我们对她的了解有多深？她富有，赫赫有名，有过两次婚姻。而在她的生活中也有一个未解之谜……

AGATHA CHRISTIE,WOMAN OF MYSTERY


WOMAN OF MYSTERY

Many people enjoy reading murder mysteries, because they are puzzles. Can we guess the murderer's name before the detective tells us at the end of the book? Was the broken chair an accident, or is it an important clue? How did the murderer get into the house? Did he (or she) have a key? Why were there three coffee cups on the table?

Agatha Christie's murder mysteries are famous all over the world. She wrote more than seventy books and they have sold millions of copies. There have been many television plays and films of her stories. Her detectives, Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple, are famous too—a short round Belgian with a black moustache, and a dear little old lady, who sees, hears, and remembers everything.

This is a story about Agatha Christie's life. What kind of person was she? How much do we know about her? She was rich, famous, and twice married. And there was a mystery in her life, too...





1'Why don't you write a story?'


'Why don't you write a story?'

Agatha Mary Clarissa Miller was bored. It was a winter morning in 1908, and she was in bed because she was ill.

'I'm feeling much better today,' she said to her mother, Clara. 'I think I'll get up.'

'You're still ill,' said Clara. 'The doctor told you to stay in bed and keep warm. And that's what you're going to do!'

Agatha was eighteen years old at this time, but in those days daughters had to do what their mothers told them.

'But I'm bored !'

'Well, do something, then,' said her mother. 'Read a book. Or write a story. Yes, why don't you write a story?'

'Write a story?' said Agatha, surprised.

'Yes,' her mother said. 'Like Madge.'

Madge was Agatha's sister. She was eleven years older than Agatha, and sometimes wrote short stories for magazines like Vanity Fair .

'I don't think that I can write stories,' said Agatha.

'How do you know?' said her mother. 'You've never tried.' And she went to find a pencil and paper.

Soon after, Agatha sat up in bed and began to write a story. It was called House of Beauty , a strange story about dreams.

It wasn't a very good story. She typed it on Madge's old typewriter, and sent it off to a magazine. But they sent it back with a letter: Thank you for sending us your story. We are afraid we cannot publish it...

'You must try again,' said her mother. Clara was always sure that her daughters could do anything.

So Agatha went on writing stories, and sending them out to magazines—but they all came back. She was a little disappointed.

'I'll try writing a novel,' she decided.

An idea came to her. She remembered seeing a beautiful young girl in a hotel in Cairo when she was visiting Egypt with Clara. The girl was always with two men, one on each side of her. One day, Agatha heard someone say, 'That girl will have to decide between them some time.'

It was all that Agatha needed for an idea, and she began writing. It was not a detective novel. It was the story of a young girl who lived in Cairo, and it was called Snow Upon the Desert . It was really two long stories put together to make a book. When it was finished, Agatha sent it to three or four publishers, but they all sent it back.

'Oh dear,' said Agatha. 'What shall I do now?'

'Why don't you show it to Eden Phillpotts?' said Clara.

Eden Phillpotts was a writer who lived near the Millers. During his life, he wrote more than a hundred popular novels, and many plays for the theatre. Agatha was a little afraid of sending her novel to this famous man, but she agreed to do it and sent it off.

Mr Phillpotts was a good writer, and also a kind man. He read Agatha's novel carefully and wrote her a letter.

Some o f your writing is very good, so I am sending you a letter to take to my agent, Hughes Massie...

Agatha—still only eighteen years old—went to London on the train. It was a long journey—more than 200 miles from her home in Torquay in Devon, and the trains were not so fast in those days.

She was very shy, and Hughes Massie was a big, frightening man. Agatha gave him the letter from Eden Phillpotts. Massie read it, talked with Agatha for a while, then kept her book to read.

Agatha went home to wait.

Some months later, Massie returned Snow Upon the Desert to her. I do not think that I can find a publisher for it, he wrote to her. The best thing is to stop thinking about it any more and to write another book.

Agatha was disappointed. She did write another book, but some other important things happened in her life first.

bore vt. make (sb.) feel tired and uninterested by being dull or tedious. （因单调或乏味）使（某人）感到厌烦。

bore

magazine n. paper covered periodical, usu. weekly or monthly, with articles, stories, etc. by various writers. 杂志；期刊。

magazine

typewriter n. machine for producing characters similar to those of print by pressing keys which cause raised metal letters, etc. to strike the paper, usu. through inked ribbon. 打字机。

typewriter

send...off send sth. by post; dispatch. 寄出或发出某物。

send...off

disappointed adj. sad or dissatisfied because sb. has failed, some desired event has not happened, etc. 失望的；失意的；受挫的。

disappointed

detective n. person, esp. a police officer, whose job is to investigate and solve crimes. 侦探。

detective

detective story story in which the main interest is a puzzling crime and the process of solving. 侦探小说。

detective story

publisher n. person or firm that publishes books, newspapers, etc. 出版者；出版商；出版社。

publisher

agent n. person who acts for, or manages the affairs of, other people in business, politics, etc. （商业、政治等方向的）代理人，经纪人。

agent

frightening adj. causing fear. 引起恐惧的；惊恐的；可怕的。

frightening





1 ．“为什么不写个故事呢？”


阿加莎·玛丽·克拉丽莎·米勒感觉甚是无聊。这是1908年冬天的一个上午，她生病躺在床上。

“今天我感觉好多了，”她对母亲克拉拉说，“我想起床。”

“你的病还没好呢，”克拉拉说，“医生让你在床上躺着，并注意保暖。你必须这样做！”

阿加莎那时候已经18岁了，可在当时女儿必须顺从母亲。

“可是我很无聊 啊！”

“嗯，那就找点事情做吧。”母亲说，“读读书，或者写写故事。对了，为什么不写个故事呢？”

“写故事？”阿加莎吃惊地说道。

“对，”母亲说，“就像玛奇一样。”

玛奇是阿加莎的姐姐。她比阿加莎大11岁，偶尔给《名利场》这样的杂志写些短篇故事。

“我想我是写不了故事的。”阿加莎说。

“你怎么知道呢？”母亲说，“你从来没试过。”她找来了纸笔。

不一会儿，阿加莎便在床上坐起来，开始写故事了。故事取名《美丽之屋》，是一个关于梦的神奇故事。

这个故事并不很吸引人。她在玛奇那台旧打字机上完成后，寄给了一家杂志。可是稿子被退了回来，还附带有一封信：感谢您能寄来您的故事，但恐怕我们不能将它出版……

“你一定要再努力一次。”母亲说。克拉拉始终坚信她的女儿们无所不能。

于是阿加莎继续写着，并将这些故事寄给各个杂志——但是它们全都被退了回来。她有一点点失望。

“我要试着写一部小说。”她下定决心。

她有了个构想。她记得和克拉拉在埃及旅行时曾在开罗一家旅馆见到过一个年轻漂亮的女孩，身边总是有两个男人一左一右地陪着她。一天，阿加莎听见有人说：“总有一天这个女孩要在他们两个之间选择一个。”

这就是阿加莎所需要的全部灵感。她开始动手写了起来。这不是一部侦探小说，而是关于住在开罗的一个年轻女孩的故事，故事的名字叫做《沙漠之雪》。它其实是由两个很长的故事拼起来的一本书。写完后，阿加莎把它寄给了三四家出版社，可稿子全部被退了回来。

“啊，天哪！”阿加莎说，“我现在该怎么办呢？”

“为什么不把它拿给伊登·菲尔波茨看看呢？”克拉拉说。

伊登·菲尔波茨是一个住在米勒家附近的作家。他一生中共写过100多部很受欢迎的小说，还有多部剧本。阿加莎有点害怕把她的小说送到这么一位名人手里。但后来她还是同意了，把小说寄了出去。

菲尔波茨先生是个优秀的作家，也是个很和善的人。他仔细读了阿加莎的小说后给她去了一封信。

有些地方你写得还是很不错的，你可以拿着我给你的信去找我的经纪人，休斯·马西……

年仅18岁的阿加莎乘火车去了伦敦。路途很遥远——离她在德文郡托基的家有200多英里，而且当时的火车车速还不是很快。

她非常害羞，而休斯·马西则是个身材魁梧让人心生恐惧的人。阿加莎把伊登·菲尔波茨的信拿给他。马西看后和阿加莎谈了一会儿，然后留下了她的书。

于是阿加莎回家等消息。

几个月后，马西把《沙漠之雪》退还给了她。我找不到一家能够出版这本书的出版社， 他写道，最好还是不要想它了，开始另写一本吧。

阿加莎失望至极。她后来的确又写了一本书，但在此之前她的生活中发生了其他一些重要的事情。





2A shy young man


A shy young man

Agatha's father, Frederick, died in 1901, when Agatha was eleven years old. He was an American, and was ten years older than Clara. After he died, Clara began to travel a lot, and often took Agatha with her.

In 1911, when Agatha was twenty-one, Clara was ill.

'You need to go somewhere warm and sunny to get better,' Clara's doctor told her.

So Clara decided to go to Egypt again, and she took Agatha with her. They stayed in a hotel in Cairo. There were some English soldiers staying near the hotel, and they often came to the hotel dances.

Agatha was a shy young woman, but she loved to dance. During her stay in Cairo, she went to fifty dances. She met a lot of exciting young men and had a wonderful time.

When she came back to England, she was soon getting invitations to garden parties, tennis parties, dances, and to country houses for the weekend.

Then a young army officer called Reggie Lucy came home from Hong Kong. Agatha was a friend of Reggie's three sisters, and often played tennis with them. But she did not know Reggie. He was a very shy young man who did not go out very much. He liked to play golf but did not like parties or dances.

'I like to play golf, but I'm not very good at it,' Agatha said when she met him.

'I—I could help you,' said Reggie, shyly. He had dark hair and brown eyes. Agatha liked him.

So, while Reggie was in England, he and Agatha played golf nearly every day.

One very warm day they played golf for a little while, then Agatha said, 'I'm hot, Reggie! Shall we have a rest?'

They sat under a tree, out of the sun, and talked. Then, suddenly, Reggie said, 'I want to marry you, Agatha. Did you know that? Perhaps you did. But you are still very young, and—'

'No, I'm not!' said Agatha. 'Not very young.'

'Of course, a pretty girl like you could marry anybody,' said Reggie.

'I don't think I want to marry anybody ,' Agatha said. 'I—yes, I think I'd like to marry you!'

'I have to go back to Hong Kong in ten clays' time,' said Reggie. 'And I'll be there for two years. But when I come back, if there isn't anybody...'

'There won't be anybody,' said Agatha.

So Reggie went back to Hong Kong.

Agatha wrote letters to him, and he wrote to her. It was all agreed. When Reggie came home again, they would get married.

dance n. social gathering at which people dance. 舞会。

dance

invitation n. request to go or come somewhere, or do sth. 邀请某人去或来某处或做某事。

invitation

golf n. outdoor game in which the player tries to hit a small hard ball into a series of 9 or 18 holes using as few strokes as possible. 高尔夫球运动。

golf

marry v. take (sb.) as a husband or wife. 与（某人）结婚；嫁或娶（某人）。

marry





2 ．腼腆的年轻人


阿加莎的父亲弗雷德里克于1901年去世，当时阿加莎只有11岁。他是一个美国人，比克拉拉年长10岁。他去世以后，克拉拉开始到处旅行，并且经常把阿加莎带在身边。

1911年，阿加莎21岁的时候，克拉拉病了。

“您需要去一个气候温暖、阳光充足的地方才能够康复。”克拉拉的医生告诉她。

于是克拉拉决定带着阿加莎重返埃及。她们住在开罗的一家旅馆里。旅馆附近住着一些英国士兵，他们经常来旅馆参加舞会。

尽管阿加莎是个害羞的年轻女子，可她非常热衷于参加舞会。在开罗逗留期间，她参加了50场舞会，遇见了很多让人心动的年轻男子，度过了一段很美好的时光。

回到英国后，很快她便接到了很多邀请，请她去参加游园会、网球聚会、舞会，或是去乡下别墅度周末。

当时，一个名叫雷吉·卢西的年轻军官刚从香港回来。阿加莎与雷吉的三个妹妹是朋友，经常在一起打网球，但是她并不认识雷吉。这个年轻人非常腼腆，不爱外出。他喜欢打高尔夫球，却讨厌参加那些聚会或是舞会。

“我喜欢打高尔夫球，可打得不好。”阿加莎见到他时说。

“我——我可以教你。”雷吉害羞地说。他有着黑色的头发和棕色的眼睛。阿加莎喜欢上了他。

于是，雷吉在英国期间几乎每天都和阿加莎在一起打高尔夫球。

一天，天气非常暖和，打了一会儿高尔夫球之后，阿加莎说道：“雷吉，我觉得很热！我们休息会儿好吗？”

他们坐在一棵能遮住太阳的树下，开始聊天。突然，雷吉说：“我想和你结婚，阿加莎。你知道吗？或许知道吧。可是你还很小，并且——”

“不，我不是！”阿加莎说，“不是很小了。”

“当然了，像你这样的漂亮女孩儿可以嫁给任何人。”雷吉说。

“我不是任何人 都想嫁，”阿加莎说，“我——是的，我想嫁给你！”

“十天后我就必须返回香港了，”雷吉说，“我要在那儿待两年。如果我回来的时候仍然没有其他人……”

“不会有其他人了。”阿加莎说。

于是雷吉返回香港了。

他们的信件你来我往。一切都已经安排好。雷吉再回来时，他们就结婚。





3Tea at the railway station


Tea at the railway station

On October the 12th, 1912, when Agatha was twenty-two, she went to a dance at the home of Lord and Lady Clifford. They lived near Chudleigh, twelve miles from Torquay, and there were many young people there for Agatha to talk to.

During the evening a young army officer came up to her.

'Will you dance with me?' he asked Agatha.

'Me?' said Agatha. 'Oh, yes, all right.'

He was tall and good-looking, with friendly blue eyes, and his name was Archibald Christie. Agatha liked him immediately. They danced together many times that evening, and Archie told her his plans.

'I want to fly,' he said, 'and I'm trying to get into the Royal Flying Corps.'

'How exciting!' said Agatha.

A week later, she was having tea with some friends at a house opposite Ashfield, her home, when there was a telephone call for her. It was her mother.

'Come home, will you, Agatha?' said Clara. 'There's a young man here. He's just arrived and I'm giving him tea. I don't know him, and I think he wants to see you.'

Agatha had to leave her friends and hurry home, so she was not very pleased. But when she got home, she found Archie Christie waiting for her.

'Hello,' he said. 'I was in Torquay and—and I thought that perhaps it would be nice to see you.' His face was red and he looked at his shoes.

Agatha smiled.

Archie stayed for the rest of the afternoon, and for supper that evening. When it was time for him to leave, he said, 'Will you come to a concert in Exeter with me, Agatha? We can go to the Redcliffe Hotel for tea after the concert.'

'I'd love to,' said Agatha, then looked at Clara. 'Can I, mother?'

'A concert, yes, Agatha,' said Clara. 'But tea at a hotel? No, I don't think so. Not a hotel .'

'Perhaps I could take Agatha to tea in—in the restaurant at Exeter railway station!' said Archie.

Agatha tried not to smile, but her mother agreed. So Agatha and Archie went to the concert—and then had tea at Exeter railway station!

'There's a New Year's dance in Torquay on the second of January,' said Agatha, when Archie took her home later. 'Will you come?'

He smiled. 'Of course,' he said. 'I want to see you as often as I can.'

But when Archie came to the New Year's dance he was very quiet and did not seem happy. He seemed to be worried about something, but Agatha said nothing. Two days later, on the 4th of January, 1913, they went to another concert together. Archie was still very quiet, and after the concert Agatha asked, 'What's wrong, Archie?'

'The Royal Flying Corps have said "yes" to me,' said Archie. 'I have to leave Exeter in two days' time. I have to go to Salisbury.' He looked at her. 'Agatha, you've got to marry me! There will never be anyone for me, only you! I've known that since our first evening together, at the Cliffords' dance.'

Agatha was very surprised. 'But—but I can't marry you. I've already told Reggie that I'll marry him.' And then she told him about Reggie Lucy.

'You didn't marry him before he went away,' said Archie. 'Why not? It's because you don't really love him!'

'We thought it was better to wait—' began Agatha.

'I won't wait,' said Archie. 'I want to marry you next month, or the month after.'

'We can't!' said Agatha. 'We haven't got any money. How will we live?'

But she did want to marry Archie.

'Archie has asked me to marry him, and I want to. I want to very much!' she told her mother.

Clara was very surprised. 'You must wait,' she told them both. 'I like you, Archie, but you are only twenty-three years old, and neither of you has any money.'

So Archie went to Salisbury, and he and Agatha waited. Agatha wrote to Reggie Lucy. It was a difficult letter to write, but Reggie wrote a very kind letter back to her. 'Don't worry about it,' he told her. 'I understand.'

*　　*　　*

In August 1914, England was suddenly at war with Germany. Archie went to France with the Royal Flying Corps, and Agatha went to work as a volunteer nurse at the Torbay Hospital in Torquay.

Archie came back to England for five days in December, and Agatha went up to London to meet him. Then the two of them went down to Bristol, where Archie's mother lived. They could not wait any longer. They wanted to get married.

Archie's mother was not happy about this, but Clara thought differently. 'Yes, get married now,' she said. 'There's a war on. Who knows what will happen? Be happy while you can.'

So Agatha and Archie were married at last on the 24th of December, 1914. Two days later, Archie went back to the war, and Agatha did not see him again for six months.

*　　*　　*

During the summer of 1915, Agatha was ill and could not do any nursing work at the hospital for three or four weeks. Then, when she returned, she went to work in the hospital dispensary. And here she learned something which was very useful for a writer of detective stories. She learned about poisons.

immediately adv. at once; without delay. 立刻；马上；当即；毫不耽搁。

immediately

opposite prep. facing. 面对。

opposite

hurry v. do sth. or move quickly or too quickly; rush. 迅速的或仓促的做某事或移动；赶紧。

hurry

concert n. musical entertainment given in public by one or more per formers. 音乐会。

concert

restaurant n. public place where meals can be bought and eaten. 餐馆；饭店。

restaurant

go away leave a place. 走开；离开。

go away

worry about be anxious about. 担忧；担心；发愁。

worry about

be at war be in a state of war. 处于交战状态。

be at war

volunteer n. person who offers to do sth. without being compelled or paid. 自愿或无偿地效劳的人；志愿者。

volunteer

dispensary n. place in a hospital, school, etc. where medicines are given out. （医院、学校等的）药房。

dispensary





3 ．车站茗谈


1912年10月12日，阿加莎22岁了，她去参加在克利福德勋爵夫妇家里举办的一场舞会。他们住在离托基12英里的查德利附近，在那儿阿加莎可以和许多年轻人聊天。

晚上的时候一位年轻军官走到她面前。

“我可以请您跳舞吗？”他问阿加莎。

“我吗？”阿加莎问，“哦，好，当然可以。”

他高大英俊，蓝色的眼睛透着和善，他的名字叫阿奇博尔德·克里斯蒂。阿加莎立刻就喜欢上了他。那晚他们跳了一支又一支舞，而且阿奇给她讲了自己的计划。

“我想做一名飞行员，”他说，“我正努力进入皇家航空队。”

“多棒啊！”阿加莎说。

一星期后，她正和几个朋友在她的家——阿什菲尔德——对面的房子里喝茶，突然接到一个电话，是她母亲打来的。

“阿加莎，回家来好吗？”克拉拉说，“有一个年轻人正等着你。他刚到，我正给他沏茶。我不认识他，我想他是想见你。”

阿加莎只得告别朋友赶快回家，心里不太高兴，但是到家后，她发现等着她的那个人是阿奇·克里斯蒂。

“您好。”他说，“我路过托基，所以——所以我想最好能见见您。”他的脸变得通红，低头看着自己的鞋。

阿加莎笑了。

阿奇待了一个下午，还留下来吃了晚饭。临走时，他说：“阿加莎，能和我一起参加埃克塞特的音乐会吗？听完音乐会后我们还可以到雷德克利夫旅馆喝茶。”

“好的。”阿加莎说，然后看看母亲，“妈妈，我可以去吗？”

“阿加莎，你可以去听音乐会，”克拉拉说，“但是在旅馆喝茶？不行，我想不可以。旅馆 可不行。”

“或许我可以带阿加莎去——去埃克塞特车站的一家餐馆喝茶！”阿奇说。

阿加莎强忍住笑，她母亲最终还是同意了。于是阿加莎就和阿奇一起去听了音乐会——然后在埃克塞特车站喝茶！

“1月2日托基有一场新年舞会。”在阿奇送她回家的路上阿加莎说，“你能来吗？”

他笑了笑。“当然可以，”他说，“我想尽可能多地见到你。”

可是阿奇来参加新年舞会的时候却非常沉默，看起来很不开心，心事重重。阿加莎什么也没问。两天后，也就是1913年1月4日，他们一起去参加另一场音乐会，阿奇依然很沉默。音乐会后阿加莎问他：“阿奇，你怎么了？”

“皇家航空队已经同意接收我了。”阿奇说，“两天后我就必须离开埃克塞特，去索尔兹伯里。”他望着她，“阿加莎，你必须 嫁给我！除了你，我不会娶任何人！从我们在克利福德家的舞会上共度的第一晚我就知道了。”

阿加莎惊讶万分。“可是——可是我不能嫁给你。我已经告诉雷吉要和他结婚的。”接着她向阿奇讲了雷吉·卢西的事情。

“在他走之前你没有嫁给他，”阿奇说，“为什么没有呢？因为你并不真正爱他！”

“我们想着最好是等——”阿加莎开始解释。

“我不要等，”阿奇说，“我想下个月就和你结婚，或是下下个月。”

“不行！”阿加莎说，“我们一点钱也没有，怎么生活呢？”

但她确实想和阿奇结婚。

“阿奇已经向我求婚了，我想嫁给他。我真的很想嫁给他！”她告诉母亲。

克拉拉大吃一惊。“你们必须再等些时候，”她告诉他们两个，“我很欣赏你，阿奇，可是你只有23岁，并且你们两个都没有钱。”

于是阿奇去了索尔兹伯里，他和阿加莎都等待着。阿加莎给雷吉·卢西写了一封信，这封信写起来异常艰难，不过雷吉的回信却非常善解人意。“不要担心，”他告诉她，“我能理解。”

*　　*　　*

1914年8月，英国突然与德国开战。阿奇随皇家航空队开赴法国，而阿加莎则在托基的托贝医院做了一名志愿护士。

12月，阿奇回到了伦敦，可只能停留五天，于是阿加莎北上伦敦与他相会。然后两人又南下去了阿奇母亲居住的布里斯托尔。他们再也不能等待下去了。他们要结婚。

阿奇的母亲并不是很赞成，不过克拉拉却有不同想法。“好，现在就结婚吧，”她说，“战争正在进行。谁能预知明天呢？及时行乐吧。”

于是1914年12月24日，阿加莎和阿奇终于结婚了。两天后，阿奇返回了战场，这一分离便是六个月。

*　　*　　*

1915年夏天，阿加莎病倒了，有三四个星期不能做任何护理工作。病好后，她转到了医院药房工作。在这里她学到了一些对成为一个侦探小说家大有益处的东西。她认识了毒药。





4A detective story


A detective story

One day, some time before the war, Agatha was talking with her sister, Madge, about detective stories. They both enjoyed reading this kind of book very much.

'I'd like to try and write a detective story myself,' said Agatha.

'You couldn't do it,' said Madge. 'They're very difficult to do. I've thought about it.'

'Well, one day I'm going to try,' said Agatha.

The idea stayed in Agatha's head, and she wanted to show Madge that she could do it. And when, years later, she went to work in the hospital dispensary, she again began to think about writing a detective story.

'There must be a murder in it, of course,' she thought. The questions ran busily around inside her head. 'But what kind of murder? A death by poisoning? Who will die? Who will the murderer be? When? How? Why? Where? And what about a detective?'

There were some Belgian people living in Torquay, who were there because of the war in Belgium. Clara, like everyone in the town, was very kind and helpful to them when they arrived. She gave them chairs and beds for their homes, and tried to make them feel happy and comfortable. Now, Agatha suddenly remembered them.

'What about a Belgian detective?' she thought, and began to build the character in her head. 'He'll be a very clever, very tidy little man. But what shall I call him? I know, I'll call him Hercules!' She smiled. 'It's a good name for a small man. And his second name? Poirot. Hercules—no, Hercule Poirot! Yes, that's it.'

Agatha thought about her detective story during every quiet minute in the dispensary. She knew a lot about poisons now. She knew which poisons worked quickly, and which worked slowly. She knew how much to give, and what different poisons smelt and tasted like. She knew how people died from poisons—did their faces turn blue? Did they die in their sleep, or die screaming in pain? A good detective—and a good writer of detective stories—must know these things. She began to write her story at home, and used Madge's old typewriter again.

'What are you doing?' Clara asked her one day.

'I'm writing a detective novel,' said Agatha, 'I want to finish it, but it's very difficult.'

'Why don't you finish it during your holiday?' said Clara. 'Go away somewhere nice and quiet, and take it with you. Where do you want to go? Dartmoor?'

'Yes!' said Agatha. 'Dartmoor!'

Dartmoor was a beautiful, lonely moor in Devon. Agatha took Madge's typewriter with her and stayed at the Moorland Hotel at Hay Tor. It was a large hotel with a lot of rooms, but not many people were staying there. For two weeks she wrote in her room every morning, then went for long walks alone on the moor in the afternoons. Everything went well. The characters seemed to come alive inside her head, and during her walks she planned her writing for the next day.

She finished the last half of the book during her holiday, and soon after she sent it to a publisher. They returned it, but Agatha was not surprised. She sent it out again, but it came back once more. She sent it to a third publisher, but they returned it, too. Then she sent it to The Bodley Head publishing company—and forgot all about it.

Two years went by. Archie came back to work in London, the war ended, and Agatha had a baby—Rosalind. The three of them were living in a flat in London when a letter arrived one morning in 1919.

It was from The Bodley Head. Agatha quickly opened the letter, and saw the words:

...Will you call at our offices? ...we would like to talk about your book...

'It's about my book—The Mysterious Affair at Styles,' she told Archie. 'I think they want to publish it!'

'Then you must go and see them at once!' said Archie.

Agatha went to the publishers' office. She met John Lane, a small man with white hair.

'Do sit down,' he said. He had a kind voice, and blue eyes that looked carefully at Agatha. 'Some of my readers think that we could publish your book. But you will need to change the last chapter. And there are a few other small things...'

Agatha was too excited to listen. She was happy to do anything. The Mysterious Affair at Styles was her first detective story, and she wanted to see it in the bookshops. So she wrote a different ending for it and changed one or two more small things, and at last John Lane was pleased with it.

poison v. kill or harm sb./ sth. with poison. 用毒药毒死或害死某人（某物）。

poison

comfortable adj. allowing, producing or having pleasant bodily relaxation. 舒适的；安逸的；使人舒服的。

comfortable

character n. person in a novel, play, etc. （小说、戏剧中的）人物。

character

scream vi. give a long piercing cry of fear, pain or excitement; cry in this way. （因恐惧、痛苦或兴奋）尖声喊叫；喊出。

scream

moor n. open uncultivated high area of land, esp. one covered with heather. 漠泽，高沼，荒野，旷野（尤指石南丛生者）。

moor

alive adj. living. 活着。

alive

soon after a short time after. 之后不久。

soon after

go by (of time) pass. （指时间）过去。

go by

mysterious adj. full of mystery; hard to understand or explain. 神秘的；不可思议的；难解的。

mysterious

chapter n. division of a book. （书中的）章，篇，回。

chapter

bookshop n. shop which sells many books. 书店。

bookshop

ending n. end, esp. of a story, film, play or word. 结尾，结局（尤指故事、电影、戏剧或词语）。

ending





4 ．一部侦探小说


战前的某一天，阿加莎正和姐姐玛奇讨论侦探小说。两人都十分喜爱这类小说。

“我想试着自己写一部侦探小说。”阿加莎说。

“你写不了的，”玛奇说，“这类小说很不好写。我也已经考虑过了。”

“嗯，总有一天我要尝试一下。”阿加莎说。

这种念头在阿加莎的脑海中挥之不去，她要向玛奇证明她能做到。几年过去了，当她到医院药房工作时，又有了一种写侦探小说的冲动。

“小说里面肯定要有一桩谋杀案。”她想。她的脑子里萦绕着各种各样的问题，“但是什么样的谋杀案呢？施毒致死吗？谁会死呢？谁又会是凶手？时间？手段？动机？地点？再有一个侦探如何？”

在托基住着一些因比利时发生战争逃到此地来的比利时人。和小镇上的其他人一样，克拉拉在这些比利时人到来的时候给予了他们热心的帮助。她给他们的家里送来椅子和床，尽量让他们感到开心和舒适。现在，阿加莎突然记起了他们。

“一个比利时侦探如何呢？”她想，并开始在那脑子里勾勒这个人物的形象，“他是一个聪明至极、穿着非常整洁的矮小男人。可是我该叫他什么好呢？知道了，我要叫他赫尔克里士！”她笑了笑，“给一个身材矮小的男人起这样的名字刚好。他的姓呢？波洛。赫尔克里士——不，赫尔克里·波洛！对，就是它了。”

药房里只要一安静下来，阿加莎就构思她的侦探小说。现在她对毒药的药性已经了如指掌。她清楚哪些毒药发作很快，哪些又很慢，该用多少剂量，各种毒药的气味和味道又是怎样的。她知道人是怎样中毒身亡的——他们会不会脸色发青？他们会在睡梦中死去，还是在痛苦的尖叫声中死去呢？一名出色的侦探——以及一名出色的侦探小说家——必须熟知这些东西。她开始在家动手写故事了，用的依然是玛奇的旧打字机。

“你在干什么？”有一天克拉拉问她。

“我在写一部侦探小说，”阿加莎回答，“我想写完，可这真的不容易。”

“为什么不去休个假完成它呢？”克拉拉说，“带着稿子去一个既美丽又安静的地方。想去哪里呢？达特穆尔？”

“对！”阿加莎说，“达特穆尔！”

达特穆尔是德文郡一片美丽却人迹罕至的荒野。阿加莎带着玛奇的打字机住在了海伊托尔的穆尔兰旅馆。这是个很大的旅馆，房间很多，却没有多少客人入住。在这儿的两个星期里，她每天上午都在房间里写作，下午则在荒野里独自散步很长时间。一切进展顺利。在她的脑子里，小说中的人物似乎都活了起来，她边散步边构思第二天的写作。

在假期里她完成了小说后半部分的创作，并很快把它寄到一家出版社。他们把稿子退了回来，但阿加莎对退稿一点也不感到惊讶。她又把它寄了出去，但又被退了回来。她又把小说寄给另一家出版社，但也遭到了同样的厄运。后来她把小说寄给了博德利·黑德出版公司——便把这件事情抛在脑后了。

两年过去了。战争结束了，阿奇回到伦敦工作，阿加莎也有了一个孩子——罗莎琳德，一家三口住在伦敦的一间公寓里。1919年的一天早晨，来了一封信。

是博德利·黑德公司寄来的。阿加莎赶快把信拆开，信上写着：

……您能来我们的办公室吗？……我们想和您商讨一下关于您的书的问题……

“是关于我的《斯泰尔斯的神秘案件》的，”她告诉阿奇，“我想他们要出版它了！”

“那你就马上动身去见他们吧！”阿奇说。

阿加莎来到了出版社办公室，见到了约翰·莱恩，一个白头发的矮小男人。

“请坐，”他说。他的声音很亲切，蓝色的眼睛仔细地打量着阿加莎。“有些读者认为我们应该出版您的书。但是您需要修改一下最后一章。另外还有一些小问题……”

阿加莎兴奋得几乎听不下去了。她愿意做任何事情。《斯泰尔斯的神秘案件》是她的首部侦探小说，她想在书店里看到自己写的书。于是她重写了故事的结局，并改动了其他一两个微不足道的地方，最后约翰·莱恩满意地接受了。





5A good detective-story writer


A good detective-story writer

Agatha's first book, The Mysterious Affair at Styles , was published in 1920. But before this, she began writing another book.

It was Archie's idea.

'Mother is finding it difficult to pay all the bills at Ashfield,' Agatha told him.

'Why doesn't she sell Ashfield?' Archie said to Agatha. 'The house is too big for just one person. Then she can buy something smaller.'

'Sell Ashfield?' said Agatha. 'Oh, no! She can't! I love it—and it's our family home.'

'Then why don't you do something about it?' said Archie.

'Do something? What do you mean?'

'Why don't you write another book?' said Archie. 'Perhaps it will make a lot of money.'

Agatha thought about it. Ashfield was her family home, and it must stay in the family. Could she do anything to help?

'Perhaps I could write another book,' she thought. 'But what can it be about?'

The answer came one day when she was having tea in a tea-shop. Two people were talking at a table near her. Agatha heard a name—and began to listen. They were talking about somebody called Jane Fish.

'What a strange name,' thought Agatha. 'But what a good beginning for a story! Somebody hears a strange name in a tea-shop. And then...? Wait, perhaps "Jane Finn" will be better. Yes! Now, let me think...'

And before Agatha left the tea-shop, an idea for a story was running around inside her head. She went home and began it immediately.

She called it The Secret Adversary , and the book was published in 1922.

The story did not have the Belgian detective Hercule Poirot in it, but her next book, Murder on the Links , did. Readers loved Poirot. He was a very short, tidy little man, with green eyes, black hair, and a beautiful black moustache. And, like another famous detective, Sherlock Holmes, he was very, very clever. He was not shy about this, and was always telling other characters in the story just how clever he was.

Other books followed, some with Poirot, some without—The Man in the Brown Suit , Poirot Investigates , and The Secret of Chimneys .

Hughes Massie, the agent, was helping Agatha now. 'You need another publisher,' he told her. 'A publisher who will pay you more than The Bodley Head. You're a good detective-story writer, Agatha, and your books are beginning to sell well.'

So Massie sent Agatha's next book — The Murder of Roger Ackroyd — to William Collins' publishers. It was an important book for Agatha.

The Murder of Roger Ackroyd came out in the spring of 1926—and people began to talk about it immediately. What did they talk about? The big surprise at the end of the book!

'That's cheating!' some people said, when they got to the end and found out the name of the murderer.

'No, it's not,' said other readers. 'It's a very clever story.'

'What's the matter with everybody?' Agatha said to Archie. 'I didn't cheat. It's wrong to say that. People must read the story carefully.'

And she was right. All the clues were there in the story, and a very clever reader could guess the name of the murderer. But most people couldn't.

(So what was the surprise at the end, and who was the murderer? The only way to find out is to read the book!)

After The Murder of Roger Ackroyd was published, more and more people began to buy Agatha's books, and Agatha had more money to spend.

The Christies bought a house at Sunningdale, about thirty miles from London.

'What shall we call it?' said Agatha.

'Styles,' said Archie, 'after your first book.'

And they put a picture of the front cover of the book, The Mysterious Affair at Styles , on the wall.

But not long after they moved to Sunningdale, something happened that put Agatha's name on the front pages of every newspaper in England.

She disappeared.

People think that it happened because she was very unhappy at this time. First, her mother died. And then Agatha found out that Archie was in love with a young woman called Nancy Neele.

bill n. written statement of money owed for goods or services supplied. 账单。

bill

tea-shop n. (usu. small) restaurant where tea and light meals are served. 茶馆。

tea-shop

moustache n. hair allowed to grow on the upper lip. 髭，（嘴唇上面的）胡子。

moustache

pay vt. give money. 付钱。

pay

cheat vi. act dishonestly or unfairly in order to win an advantage or profit. 欺骗。

cheat

clue n. fact or piece of evidence that helps to solve a problem or reveal the truth in an investigation. 线索；端倪。

clue

after prep. in the style of; in imitation of. 依照；仿照。

after

front page 头版。

front page

disappear vi. no longer be visible; vanish. 消失；失踪。

disappear





5 ．出色的侦探小说家


1920年，阿加莎的第一本书《斯泰尔斯的神秘案件》出版了。但在此之前，她已经着手写另一本书了。

这是阿奇的主意。

“妈妈觉得越来越难对付阿什菲尔德的一大堆账单了。”阿加莎对他说。

“她为什么不把阿什菲尔德卖掉呢？”阿奇对阿加莎说，“那所房子只住一个人未免显得太空荡了些。她可以买一所小点的房子。”

“卖掉阿什菲尔德？”阿加莎说，“哦，不行！她可不能那么做！我爱它——那是我们家族的房子。”

“那你 为什么不为它做点什么呢？”阿奇说。

“做点什么？你指的是什么？”

“你为什么不再写一本书呢？”阿奇说，“这可能会赚一大笔钱。”

阿加莎考虑了一下。阿什菲尔德是她家族的房子，必须留下来。她能帮上什么忙呢？

“或许我可以 再写一本书。”她想，“但写什么好呢？”

一天在茶馆喝茶时她突然有了灵感。有两个人坐在邻桌聊天。阿加莎无意中听见了一个名字——便开始听了下去。他们在聊一个叫做简·菲什的人。

“好奇怪的名字啊，”阿加莎想，“但作为故事的开端多好！某个人在茶馆无意间听到一个很奇怪的名字。然后……？等等，可能‘简·芬恩’更好一些。对！现在让我想想……”

在阿加莎离开茶馆之前，关于故事的构思已经在她的头脑中迅速地成形了。她回到家立刻动手写了起来。

她把它叫做《神秘对手》，这本书于1922年出版。

这个故事里没有比利时侦探赫尔克里·波洛，可他在她的下一本书《高尔夫球场命案》中又出现了。读者们喜欢波洛。他身材矮小，穿着整洁，有着绿色的眼睛，黑色的头发和漂亮的黑胡子，并且就像另外一个著名侦探舍洛克·福尔摩斯一样，他聪明至极。对这一点他并没有感到不好意思，反而总是告诉故事里其他的人物他有多么聪明。

更多的书陆续出版了，有些里面有波洛，有些则没有——像《棕衣男子》、《波洛出击》和《烟囱里的秘密》。

休斯·马西现在是阿加莎的经纪人。“你需要重新找一家出版社，”他告诉她，“一家比博德利·黑德付酬更高的出版社。阿加莎，你是一名出色的侦探小说家，你的书开始变得很畅销了。”

于是马西把阿加莎的另一本书——《罗杰·阿克罗伊德命案》——送到了威廉·柯林斯出版社。这本书对阿加莎来说至关重要。

《罗杰·阿克罗伊德命案》于1926年春天出版——书一出版，立刻便成为人们争论的对象。他们在争论什么呢？书中出乎意料的结局！

“这是欺骗！”一些人读到书末发现凶手是谁后如是说。

“不，这不是欺骗，”另外一些读者说，“这个故事写得极其高明。”

“大家这是怎么了？”阿加莎对阿奇说，“我没有欺骗，这样说是不对的。大家必须仔细读故事才行。”

她是正确的。所有的线索都在 故事中，一个极其聪明的读者是能够 猜出凶手的名字的。可惜大多数人都没能做到。

（所以这出人意料的故事结局是怎样的？凶手到底是谁？只有读了这本书才能知道！）

《罗杰·阿克罗伊德命案》出版后，越来越多的人开始买阿加莎的书了，她的手头变得宽绰起来。

克里斯蒂一家在离伦敦30英里的森尼达尔买了一所房子。

“我们叫它什么好呢？”阿加莎说。

“斯泰尔斯，”阿奇说，“以你的第一本书来命名。”

他们把一幅《斯泰尔斯的神秘案件》封面的照片挂在了墙上。

然而就在他们移居森尼达尔不久，一件事情发生了，阿加莎的名字随之出现在英国大大小小的报纸的头版。

她失踪了。

人们认为她的失踪源于她这段时间的不快。先是她母亲的去世。然后是阿加莎发现阿奇竟然爱着一个叫南希·内莱的年轻女人。





6Agatha disappears


Agatha disappears

On the morning of Friday, the 3rd of December, 1926, Archie left Styles and went to stay with some friends for the weekend. Nancy Neele was also staying at this house for the weekend. Perhaps Agatha knew this, perhaps she didn't—we can't be sure.

Nobody knows what Agatha was thinking, late that dark winter evening. Rosalind, now seven years old, was in bed. The Christies' two housemaids were in the kitchen. But we know this. At about eleven o'clock that evening, Agatha went out and drove away in her car.

She did not return home that night.

*　　*　　*

On Saturday morning, a woman arrived by taxi at the Hydro Hotel in Harrogate, Yorkshire. The Hydro was one of Harrogate's biggest and best hotels, near the centre of the town.

'Can I have a room, please?' the woman asked. She was carrying a small suitcase, and she looked very tired.

'Yes, of course,' said the man behind the hotel desk. 'There's a nice room on the first floor—room number five. It has hot and cold water, and the cost is seven pounds for a week.'

'Thank you, that will be all right,' said the woman.

'What name, please?' asked the man.

'Mrs Teresa Neele,' said the woman with the suitcase.

*　　*　　*

Also on that cold Saturday morning in December, a fifteen-year-old boy was walking beside a lake called the Silent Pool. This was at a place called Newlands Corner, about fourteen miles from Sunningdale. The boy's name was George Best.

Suddenly, George saw a car. It was off the road, down by the lake, but the lights were on.

'That's strange,' he thought. 'Why is that car down there, and why are the lights on?' And he went to have a better look.

The car was empty, but the driver's door was open. George looked inside. He saw a coat, and an open suitcase. Half-out of the suitcase were three dresses, some shoes—and some papers with the name 'Mrs Agatha Christie' on them.

George quickly went to find a policeman.

*　　*　　*

The newspapers were soon full of the story, and Agatha's picture was on the front pages. Where was the detective-story writer? Was she dead? Was she murdered? Did she kill herself?

The Daily News wanted answers to these questions, and said, on December the 7th, that it would give ￡100 to the first person with the answers. By the next weekend, hundreds of policemen and thousands of people were looking for her.

'Did your wife ever talk about disappearing?' a Daily Mail reporter asked Archie.

'Yes,' said Archie. 'She once told her sister, "I could disappear any time I wanted to. I would plan it carefully, and nobody would find me." Perhaps this happened. Or perhaps she's ill and can't remember who she is.'

The police asked Archie lots of questions, watched his house, and followed him to his office.

'They think I've murdered Agatha,' he told a friend.

*　　*　　*

The woman at the Hydro Hotel had breakfast in her room each morning, and sat quietly reading in the hotel sitting-room in the afternoons. She said 'Good morning' and 'Good afternoon' to other people in the hotel, and seemed worried because there were no letters for her.

But one of the chambermaids went to see Mrs Taylor, the wife of the hotel manager.

'Mrs Neele looks like the woman in the Daily Mail picture,' said the chambermaid. 'You know the one—Agatha Christie!'

Mrs Taylor spoke to her husband about it, but they decided to say nothing. They did not want any trouble at the hotel.

But two more people at the Hydro Hotel were also looking carefully at 'Mrs Teresa Neele'.

Bob Tappin and Bob Leeming played music in the hotel each evening, and both of them watched the quiet woman in the corner of the room—and began to think.

'I'm sure that Neele woman is Agatha Christie,' Bob Tappin said to his friend one evening.

'I think you're right,' Bob Leeming agreed. 'What shall we do about it?'

And the next day they went to the police.

The police immediately told Agatha's husband, and Archie Christie arrived at the Hydro Hotel at 6.45pm on Tuesday, the 14th of December. When his wife walked out of the sitting-room, Archie saw her and went up to her.

'Hello, Agatha,' he said.

She looked at him carefully, but did not seem sure who he was. 'Hello,' she said.

*　　*　　*

The hotel was soon full of newspaper reporters.

Archie told them later, 'I don't think that my wife knows who she is. She doesn't know me, and she doesn't know where she is.'

He and Agatha left the hotel the next day. There were reporters everywhere. They followed the Christies to the railway station, trying to get pictures of the frightened Agatha, who was hiding her face behind her hands. She looked thin and her face was white.

And in London, hundreds of people were waiting at King's Cross Station for the train from Harrogate. Everyone wanted to see the 'woman of mystery' and her husband. Their lives now seemed to be like something out of one of her detective stories.

Archie helped the silent, frightened Agatha through the crowd. Reporters shouted questions at them and took pictures, but neither Archie nor Agatha said a word.

And for the rest of her life, Agatha never again spoke about Harrogate, the Hydro Hotel, or 'Teresa Neele'. But what really happened that night after she left Styles? Why did she leave her car? How did she get to Harrogate? It was always a mystery.

It still is.

housemaid n. woman servant in a house, esp. one who cleans rooms, etc. （尤指清扫房间等的）女仆，女佣人。

housemaid

suitcase n. case with flat sides, used for carrying clothes, etc. when travelling. 手提衣箱；小提箱。

suitcase

be full of be filled with. 满的，充满……的。

be full of

look for search for or try to find sb./sth. 寻找或寻求某人（某物）。

look for

reporter n. person who reports news for the media. 记者；新闻通讯员。

reporter

chambermaid n. woman whose job is cleaning and tidying bedrooms, usu. in a hotel. 以打扫和整理卧室为工作的妇女（通常指旅馆中的）；女服务员；女侍。

chambermaid

in the corner of the room 在屋角。

in the corner of the room

crowd n. huge number of people gathered together in the open. 人群。

crowd





6 ．阿加莎失踪了


1926年12月3日，星期五，阿奇在上午离开了斯泰尔斯，去和一些朋友过周末。南希·内莱也在那里。阿加莎或许知道这些，或许不知道——我们不得而知。

没人知道在那个漆黑的冬夜阿加莎在想些什么。七岁的罗莎琳德已经睡了。克里斯蒂家的两个女佣在厨房里。但我们所知道的是，那天晚上大概11点钟，阿加莎走出房门，驾车离去。

那晚她没有回家。

*　　*　　*

星期六早晨，一个女人乘坐出租车来到位于约克郡哈罗盖特的海卓旅馆。海卓是哈罗盖特最大、最好的旅馆，在镇中心附近。

“请给我开个房间好吗？”那个女人说。她带着一个小小的衣箱，看上去非常疲惫。

“好，当然可以，”宾馆前台后面的服务员说，“二楼有一个很好的房间——五号房。冷热水都有，每星期七英镑。”

“谢谢你，这就可以了。”那女人说。

“请问您的名字？”服务员问。

“特里萨·内莱夫人。”带着衣箱的女人答道。

*　　*　　*

同样是在那个12月寒气袭人的星期六早晨，一个15岁的男孩儿正沿着一个叫静塘的湖走着。这个地方名叫纽兰兹·科纳，离森尼达尔14英里。男孩儿名叫乔治·贝斯特。

突然，乔治看见了一辆汽车。它停在路边，车头倾向湖边，但车灯依然亮着。

“真奇怪，”他想，“这辆车为什么停在那儿，车灯怎么还亮着呢？”他走过去想看个仔细。

车里没人，驾驶员那边的车门敞开着。乔治向里瞧了瞧，看见一件大衣和一个打开了的衣箱。箱子内外散落着三件连衣裙，几只鞋——还有几张写着“阿加莎·克里斯蒂夫人”的纸。

乔治飞快地跑去叫警察。

*　　*　　*

很快报纸上满篇都是这件事的报道，头版上还有阿加莎的照片。这个侦探小说家在哪里？她死了吗？被谋杀了吗？还是自杀了？

《每日新闻》想找到这些问题的答案，12月7日，它声称谁先找到答案谁就可以赢得100英镑。到了下一个周末的时候，成百上千的警察和成千上万的人都在寻找她。

“你的妻子有没有提起过失踪？”《每日邮报》的记者问阿奇。

“提起过，”阿奇说，“她曾经对她姐姐说：'我什么时候想失踪就会失踪。我会有很周密的计划，没人找得到我。'可能这真的发生了。或者她可能是病了，记不得自己是谁了。”

警方问了阿奇很多问题，监视他的房子，并跟踪他到办公室。

“他们认为是我谋杀了阿加莎。”他对一个朋友说。

*　　*　　*

住在海卓旅馆的那个女人每天在她的房间里用早餐，下午坐在旅馆大厅里静静地看书。她对旅馆里的其他人都说“早上好”和“下午好”，因为没有收到来信而显得有些焦虑。

旅馆的一个女服务员找到旅馆经理的妻子泰勒夫人。

“内莱夫人看起来很像是《每日邮报》照片上的那个女人，”这个女服务员说，“您知道的——阿加莎·克里斯蒂！”

泰勒夫人和丈夫说了这件事，为了不给旅馆带来麻烦，他们决定暂不声张。

但是在海卓旅馆里还有两个人在仔细打量着这位“特里萨·内莱夫人”。

鲍勃·塔平和鲍勃·利明每晚都在旅馆里演奏音乐，他们都看见了那个安安静静坐在屋子角落里的女人——并开始琢磨。

“我肯定那个叫内莱的女人是阿加莎·克里斯蒂，”一天晚上鲍勃·塔平对他的伙伴说。

“我想你是对的，”鲍勃·利明表示赞同，“我们该怎么办呢？”

第二天他们去了警察局。

警方立即通知了阿加莎的丈夫，阿奇·克里斯蒂在12月14日星期二的下午6:45赶到了海卓旅馆。当他的妻子走出大厅时，阿奇看到了她并迎上前去。

“你好，阿加莎。”他说。

她认真地打量着他，却不敢肯定这是谁。“你好。”她说。

*　　*　　*

旅馆里很快就挤满了报社记者。

后来阿奇对他们说：“我想我妻子不知道自己是谁。她不认得我，也不知道自己身在何处。”

第二天他和阿加莎离开了旅馆。到处都是记者，他们跟随克里斯蒂夫妇到了火车站，想拍下阿加莎受惊吓的照片，阿加莎只好用手捂住自己的脸。她看上去很消瘦，脸色苍白。

在伦敦，有成百上千个人在金斯克罗斯火车站等待从哈罗盖特开来的火车。大家都想目睹一下这位“神秘女人”和她丈夫的风采。他们的生活现在看起来就像她的侦探小说里的某些情节。

阿奇保护着沉默惊恐的阿加莎穿过人群。记者们边冲他们大声地提问边拍摄照片，阿奇和阿加莎均保持缄默。

阿加莎有生之年再也没有谈起过哈罗盖特、海卓旅馆或是特里萨·内莱。在她离开斯泰尔斯的那天晚上究竟 发生了什么事？她为什么丢下了汽车？她又是如何到的哈罗盖特？这些都将永远成为不解之谜。

至今如此。





7A young archaeologist


A young archaeologist

During the first weeks of 1927, Agatha went to stay with Madge and her husband in Cheadle, near Manchester. Archie stayed at Styles, but he wanted to marry Nancy Neele, and he asked Agatha for a divorce. At first she would not agree, but at last she said yes, and they were divorced in April 1928. Rosalind lived with Agatha.

'I don't want to use the name "Christie" again,' Agatha told her publishers. 'I will think of another name to use.'

'But you can't change it now,' they said. 'Your readers know "Agatha Christie"—that's why they buy your books. If you change your name, nobody will know who you are!'

In the end, Agatha agreed to keep the name Christie, but she was not happy about it. But William Collins was right. Thousands of people in England (and America) were reading Agatha's books now.

Then, in the autumn of 1928, Agatha decided to visit the West Indies. Rosalind was at school, and Agatha wanted a holiday in the sun, so she got tickets for a ship to Jamaica.

Two days before she left England, Agatha went to dinner with some friends. During the evening, she talked to some people who were just back from Baghdad, in Iraq. Their names were Commander and Mrs Howe.

'People always say that Baghdad is a terrible place,' said Mrs Howe. 'But we loved it.'

She went on talking about the city, and Agatha listened with great interest. She soon decided that she wanted to see Baghdad for herself.

'How do you get there?' she said. 'By sea?'

'You can go by train,' said Mrs Howe. 'On the Orient Express.'

'The Orient Express!' said Agatha. 'I've always wanted to ride on that famous train. I'll go to Baghdad, not the West Indies!'

The Howes were very helpful and wrote down the names of interesting places for Agatha to visit. 'And you must go to Ur,' Commander Howe said.

Next day, Agatha changed her tickets for the West Indies for tickets to Istanbul by the Orient Express, and then on across the desert to Baghdad.

It was an exciting journey for her, travelling alone for the first time. And later it gave her the idea for another of her most famous books—Murder on the Orient Express .

While she was staying in Baghdad, she remembered Commander Howe's words, 'You must go to Ur.'

Archaeology was something that interested Agatha very much, and Leonard Woolley, the archaeologist, and his wife were working at Ur.

Katherine Woolley was very happy to meet Agatha.

'I love your books!' she told Agatha. 'I've just finished reading The Murder of Roger Ackroyd . It was wonderful!'

Agatha became the Woolleys' special visitor. She loved Ur, and she loved watching the archaeologists. It was slow, tiring work, and they had to dig very carefully. Sometimes they found nothing for hours, and sometimes they found old pots or knives. It was always exciting when one of the workers found something that was thousands of years old.

'You must come back again another year,' Katherine Woolley said.

So Agatha did. She went out in March 1930, the week before the Woolleys planned to come back to England. The plan was that Agatha could travel back with them through Syria and Greece.

A young archaeologist called Max Mallowan was working with the Woolleys. He was twenty-five years old, and a quiet young man.

'I've told Max to show you Nejef and Kerbala,' Katherine Woolley told Agatha. 'Nejef is the holy city of the dead, and Kerbala has a wonderful mosque. When we leave here and go to Baghdad, he'll take you there. You can see Nippur on the way.'

'Oh, but doesn't Max want to go to Baghdad with you?' said Agatha. 'He will have friends to see there before he goes home to England.'

'Oh no,' said Katherine. 'Max will be pleased to take you.'

The young archaeologist was pleased to take Agatha. He liked her immediately, and Agatha liked him. They talked and laughed and enjoyed every minute of their time together.

They met the Woolleys in Baghdad, and the four of them travelled to Greece together. But when they got to their hotel in Athens, there were seven telegrams waiting for Agatha. They all said the same thing. Rosalind was ill. Agatha must come home quickly.

'I'll go with you, Agatha,' said Max.

'Oh, thank you, Max,' said Agatha. 'But haven't you got plans to—?'

'I've changed my plans,' said Max, quietly. 'I'm coming with you, Agatha.'

So they travelled home together. When they arrived, they found that Rosalind was much better, so that was one happy ending. Soon, there was another.

Agatha was fourteen years older than Max, but during the journey home Max decided to ask her an important question. And when they were back in England, he asked Agatha to marry him.

They were married on the 11th of September, 1930, in Edinburgh, in Scotland.

*　　*　　*

1930 was also the year when Agatha's other famous detective first appeared — in The Murder at the Vicarage . Her name was Miss Jane Marple—a little old woman who lived in the quiet English village of St Mary Mead. Miss Marple looked like somebody's grandmother, a nice kind woman who enjoyed cooking and gardening. But she also had very good eyes and ears. She saw, heard, and remembered everything—names, faces, the times of trains and buses, the colour of a shirt, the sound of a door shutting. And she always found out the name of the murderer before the police did.

Readers loved the Miss Marple stories, and she was soon as popular as Hercule Poirot. But was she a real person? Where did the idea for the character come from?

'Where? I can never remember,' Agatha always said.

archaeologist n. expert in the study of ancient civilizations by scientific analysis of physical remains found in the ground. 考古学家。

archaeologist

divorce n. legal ending of a marriage. 离婚；离异。

divorce

commander n. person who commands. 指挥官；司令；队长。

commander

orient n. countries of the East (e.g. Japan, China). 东方国家（如日本、中国）。

orient

express n. fast train that stops at few stations. 快车。

express

across prep. from one side to the other side of (sth.). 从（某物）的一边到另一边；横过（某物）。

across

pot n. round vessel made of earthenware, metal, etc. for cooking things in. （烹任用的）锅。

pot

holy adj. regarded as sacred; consecrated. 视为神圣的；神圣化的。

holy

mosque n. building in which Muslims worship. 清真寺。

mosque

telegram n. message sent by telegraph and then delivered in written or printed form. 电报。

telegram

gardening n. cultivating of gardens. 园艺。

gardening





7 ．年轻的考古学家


1927年最初的几个星期，阿加莎和马奇以及她的丈夫一起住在曼彻斯特附近的奇德尔，阿奇则住在斯泰尔斯，但他想和南希·内莱结婚，并向阿加莎提出离婚。起初她并不同意，不过后来还是同意了，于是1928年4月他们离婚了。罗莎琳德与阿加莎住在一起。

“我不想再用'克里斯蒂'这个名字了。”阿加莎告诉她的出版商们，“我要另换一个。”

“但是现在你不能改，”他们说，“你的读者们知道'阿加莎·克里斯蒂'，所以才会买你的书。如果你改了名字，没人会知道你是谁！”

阿加莎最终同意继续使用克里斯蒂这个名字，但是她很不高兴。不过威廉·柯林斯公司是对的，因为此时英国（和美国）有成千上万的人在读阿加莎的书。

1928年秋天，阿加莎决定去西印度群岛旅行。罗莎琳德住在学校，并且阿加莎想要度一个阳光绚烂的假期，于是她买了去牙买加的船票。

还有两天就要离开伦敦的时候，阿加莎和一些朋友吃晚饭。整个晚上她都在和两个刚刚从伊拉克的巴格达归来的人聊天，他们是豪司令及夫人。

“人们总是说巴格达是个恐怖的地方。”豪夫人说，“可我们很喜欢那儿。”

她继续聊着那座城市，阿加莎饶有兴致地听着。很快她便决定要去亲眼看一看巴格达。

“您怎么到那儿去呢？”她问，“乘船吗？”

“您可以坐火车去，”豪夫人回答，“坐东方快车。”

“东方快车！”阿加莎说，“我一直想乘一次那列有名的火车。我要去巴格达，不去西印度群岛了！”

豪夫妇很热心地给阿加莎写下了那些要参观的名胜古迹的名字。“您一定要去乌尔。”豪司令说。

第二天，阿加莎把去西印度群岛的船票换成了乘东方快车去伊斯坦布尔的车票，然后从那里穿越沙漠到达巴格达。

对她而言，这是一次很让人兴奋的旅行，因为这是她首次独自出行。后来这次旅行赋予了她写出她另外一部名作的灵感——《东方快车谋杀案》。

在巴格达逗留期间，她想起了豪司令说过的话：“您一定要去乌尔。”

阿加莎对考古学极其感兴趣，而且当时考古学家伦纳德·伍利和他的妻子正在乌尔工作。

凯瑟琳·伍利非常高兴能见到阿加莎。

“我很喜欢您的书！”她告诉阿加莎。“我刚刚读完《罗杰·阿克罗伊德命案》，写得棒极了！”

阿加莎成了伍利夫妇的贵宾。她喜欢乌尔，也喜欢看考古学家们工作。这种工作缓慢而辛苦，并且他们挖掘时必须非常小心。有时候一连几个小时他们一无所获，有时候他们则可以发现一些旧锅或刀子。而某个考古工作者发现了有几千年历史的东西的时候，总是很让人兴奋的时刻。

“以后你一定要再来。”凯瑟琳·伍利说。

阿加莎做到了。她于1930年3月出发，也就是伍利夫妇准备回英国前的一个星期。之所以这样安排，为的是阿加莎能够和他们一同途经叙利亚和希腊返回。

和伍利夫妇一起工作的有一个名叫马克斯·马洛温的年轻考古学家。他25岁，是个性格温和的年轻人。

“我已经告诉马克斯让他带你去奈寨和克尔巴拉，”凯瑟琳·伍利对阿加莎说，“奈寨是亡灵的圣地，而在克尔巴拉有一个很漂亮的清真寺。他会在我们动身去巴格达的时候带你去那儿。路上你还可以顺便去尼普尔。”

“哦，可是难道马克斯不想和你们一起去巴格达吗？”阿加莎问道，“回英国之前他肯定要去那儿看望朋友。”

“哦，不，”凯瑟琳说，“马克斯会很高兴带你去的。”

那个年轻的考古学家的确 很高兴带阿加莎去玩。他立刻喜欢上了她，而且阿加莎也喜欢他。他们又说又笑，在一起的每分每秒都很快乐。

他们与伍利夫妇在巴格达会合，然后四个人一起去了希腊。然而当他们到达在雅典的旅馆时，已经有七封电报等着阿加莎了。电报都是同样的内容——罗莎琳德病了，阿加莎必须尽快赶回去。

“阿加莎，我陪你回去。”马克斯说。

“哦，谢谢你，马克斯，”阿加莎说，“可是你不是计划去——？”

“我已经改变了我的计划，”马克斯平静地说，“阿加莎，我要和你一起回去。”

于是他们一起回了家。赶到家时，发现罗莎琳德已经好多了，那是一个圆满结局。很快，又有了另外一个。

阿加莎比马克斯大14岁，但在回英国的途中马克斯决定问她一个很重要的问题。回到英国后，他便向阿加莎求婚了。

1930年9月11日，他们在苏格兰的爱丁堡结婚了。

*　　*　　*

也是在1930年，阿加莎的另一位名探在《牧师家的谋杀案》中首次登场了。她就是简·马普尔小姐——一位住在宁静的英国乡村圣·玛丽米德的小个子老太太。马普尔小姐看上去就像是谁的祖母，一个和蔼可亲、喜欢烹饪和园艺的老太太。可是她有着非常锐利的眼睛和极其灵敏的听觉。她能够看见、听到并且记住一切——姓名、面孔、火车和汽车的时间、衬衣的颜色、关门的声音。她总是能在警方之前找出凶手。

读者们非常喜欢马普尔小姐的故事，很快她便变得和赫尔克里·波洛一样受欢迎了。可她是不是一个真实的人呢？这个人物的灵感又是从哪里得来的呢？

“哪里？我记不得了。”阿加莎总是这么说。





8Dame Agatha


Dame Agatha

For the next twenty-five years, Agatha went with Max on all his archaeological journeys. She loved travelling, and those were the happiest years of her life. It was a good time for writing, too.

'It's nice and quiet,' Agatha always said. 'There's no telephone!'

And visiting these interesting places gave her ideas for some of her best books—Death on the Nile , Appointment with Death , Murder in Mesopotamia , They Came to Baghdad. She was now one of the most popular detective-story writers in the world.

One of the many people who enjoyed her books was Queen Mary, the mother of the King of England. One day, in 1946, Agatha had a letter from the British Broadcasting Corporation in London.

'They want me to write a play for Queen Mary's 80th birthday!' she told Max. 'A play for the radio.'

'Then you must do it,' said Max.

Agatha's play for radio was called Three Blind Mice . Later, she wrote the play again, for a London theatre. This time it was much longer, and she gave it a new name: The Mousetrap.

It is a very famous play. It opened in 1952, and has been in one or other of the London theatres ever since then. In 1997, 45 years later, people were still going to see the play.

Why? It's a very good murder mystery, of course, but there is another story about The Mousetrap , too. Every night, at the end of the play, one of the actors talks to the people in the theatre, and says, 'Please don't tell your friends who did the murder in this play. They must come to the theatre and see the play themselves!'

And everybody keeps the secret of the murderer's name—and so more and more people go to see the play.

*　　*　　*

In 1971, Queen Elizabeth made Agatha a Dame of the British Empire—a very high honour for a woman in Britain.

But why was Agatha Christie so famous? Perhaps it is because she was a wonderful story-teller. She planned her murder mysteries very carefully, putting a clue here, a clue there. And they are clever clues, so it is not easy to guess the name of the murderer. Who did it? We want to know, and by the end of the book, everything falls tidily into place—and we have the answer. And of course the stories are not really about murder and death—they are puzzles, with comfortable endings, because it is pleasing to read that the detective always catches the criminal. For an hour or two, we can escape from real life, which is often neither tidy nor comfortable.

Agatha Christie died on the 12th of January, 1976. During her life, she wrote sixty-seven detective novels, ten books of short stories, thirteen plays, six novels that were not about crime (using the name 'Mary Westmacott'), and two books about her life. Many films were made from her books; the most famous one is Murder on the Orient Express , made in 1974.

Today, millions of her books, in more than forty different languages, are still sold in every country of the world, from China to Nicaragua. Agatha Christie was, perhaps, the greatest detective-story writer of all time—a woman of mystery, both in books and in life.

broadcasting n. sending out programmes on radio or television. （无线电或电视节目）广播。

broadcasting

corporation n. business company. 公司。

corporation

mousetrap n. trap for catching mice. 捕鼠器。

mousetrap

honour n. reputation for greatness, good behaviour, truth fulness, etc. 荣誉；名誉；信誉。

honour

tidily adv. arranged neatly and in order. 安排或排列整齐地。

tidily

fall into place (of a set of facts or series of events) begin to make sense in relationship to each other. （指一系列事实或事件）开始有头绪。

fall into place

puzzle n. question that is difficult to understand or answer; mystery. 难题；谜一般的事物。

puzzle

criminal n. person who commits a crime or crimes. 犯人；罪犯。

criminal





8 ．阿加莎女爵士


后来的25年里，马克斯每次的考古之旅都有阿加莎陪伴。她喜欢旅行，那些年是她一生中最快乐的时光，同样也是写作的一段黄金时间。

“多么美好宁静啊，”阿加莎总是这样说，“没有电话！”

游览那些名胜古迹赋予她的灵感促成了她最优秀的几本书的创作——《尼罗河上的惨案》、《死亡约会》、《美索不达米亚谋杀案》和《他们来到巴格达》。她成为世界上最受欢迎的侦探小说家之一。

她众多的忠实读者之一便是英国国王的母亲，玛丽王后。1946年的一天，阿加莎接到了伦敦英国广播公司的一封信。

“他们想让我为玛丽王后的80岁生日写一个剧本！”她告诉马克斯，“一个广播剧。”

“那你必须写了。”马克斯说。

阿加莎的广播剧名叫《三只盲鼠》。后来她又为伦敦一家剧院改写了这个剧本，把它的时间加长了很多，并且取了一个新名字：《老鼠夹》。

这个剧本非常有名。它于1952年开演，从那以后总有一家或几家伦敦剧院里在上演这部剧。1997年，在它首演45年后，人们依然去看这部剧。

为什么呢？当然这是一个写得很好的神秘谋杀案，可是关于《老鼠夹》这部剧还有另外一个故事。每晚，在剧末都会有一个演员对剧场里的观众说：“请不要告诉您的朋友们剧中的凶手是谁。他们必须亲自来剧院观看！”

大家都保守住了凶手是谁的秘密，于是就有越来越多的人来观看这部剧了。

*　　*　　*

1971年，伊丽莎白女王册封阿加莎为英国女爵士——一个对英国女人来说非常高的荣誉。

但是阿加莎·克里斯蒂的名气为什么这么大呢？可能因为她是一名很棒的小说家。她总是这一条线索、那一条线索地非常巧妙地布置这些神秘的谋杀案，并且这些线索都极其隐秘，所以不易猜出凶手是谁。我们想知道是谁干的，却一直要到书末，一切都水落石出的时候，才能找到答案。当然这些故事不只是关于谋杀和死亡——它们是一些谜团，有着令人满意的结局，因为人们总是很高兴看到侦探能抓获罪犯。就在那么一两个小时里，我们可以暂时逃离既不井井有条又不让人满意的现实生活。

阿加莎·克里斯蒂于1976年1月12日去世。她一生中写过67部侦探小说，10本短篇小说集，13个剧本，6部非犯罪题材的小说（以“玛丽·韦斯特马科特”这个名字出版的），还有两部自传。她的书被拍成多部电影，最著名的是1974年拍摄的《东方快车谋杀案》。

如今，她的书被译成40多种不同的文字，从中国到尼加拉瓜，在世界上每一个国家都可以买得到，销售量达千百万册。阿加莎·克里斯蒂或许将永远是一位侦探小说巨匠——一个在书中、生活中同样神秘的女人。





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1．Read the introduction on the book. How much do you know now about Agatha Christie and her books?

Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Agatha Christie's books are love stories.

YES □／NO □

2) Her books are read all over the world.

YES □／NO □

3) One of her famous detectives is a woman.

YES □／NO □

4) Hercule Poirot is a Frenchman.

YES □／NO □

5) Agatha Christie had four husbands.

YES □／NO □

6) There are many films of her stories.

YES □／NO □

2．What is the mystery in Agatha Christie's life? Can you guess? Choose one of these ideas.

1) For years she lives alone in a big house and never sees or talks to anybody.

2) She helps to find a real murderer, but nobody knows how she did it.

3) She disappears for some weeks and nobody ever finds out what happened to her.

4) Somebody tries to murder her, but she never tells anybody about it.





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1．Read Chapters 1 and 2, and answer these questions.

1) Why did Agatha's mother tell Agatha to write a story?

2) What happened to Agatha's first story?

3) Why did Agatha go to London when she was eighteen?

4) What did Agatha do in Cairo?

5) How did Agatha get to know Reggie Lucy?

6) Why did Agatha and Reggie have to wait before they got married?

2．Before you read Chapter 3, can you guess the answer to this question?

When Reggie comes home again, will Agatha marry him?

3．Read Chapters 3 and 4. Who said, thought, or wrote these words? Who or what were the words about?

1) 'No, I don't think so. Not a hotel .'

2) 'I've already told Reggie that I'll marry him.'

3) 'Don't worry about it. I understand.'

4) 'There's a war on. Who knows what will happen? Be happy while you can.'

5) 'You couldn't do it. They're very difficult to do.'

6) 'He'll be a very clever, very tidy little man.'

7) 'Go away somewhere nice and quiet, and take it with you.'

8) 'But you will need to change the last chapter.'

4．Read Chapters 5 and 6. Choose the best question-word for these questions, and then answer them.

What/Why

1) ...did Agatha begin writing another book?

2) ...was the detective Hercule Poirot like?

3) ...did people talk about The Murder of Roger Ackroyd ?

4) ...did people think that Agatha disappeared?

5) ...happened at eleven o'clock on 3rd December,1926?

6) ...did George Best find in a car at Newlands Corner?

7) ...were people at the Hydro Hotel in Harrogate so interested in Mrs Teresa Neele?

8) ...really happened on the night that Agatha Christie left Styles?

5．Before you read Chapters 7 and 8, can you guess which of these sentences are true?

1) Agatha and Archie decide to stay married.

2) Archie is murdered.

3) Agatha meets and marries another man.

4) Agatha spends a lot of her time travelling.

5) Agatha is famous, but unhappy, for the rest of her life.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


1．Here is a passage about Agatha Christie, but it is full of mistakes. Can you find and correct them?

Agatha Christie was a famous writer of ghost stories. She was born in 1890, was married three times, and had two sons. She met her third husband, Max Mallowan, in Scotland. He was a well-known photographer, who spent a lot of time travelling, but Agatha always stayed at home.

Agatha Christie wrote nearly two hundred books. The famous detectives in her plays are called Mr Hercule Marple and Miss Jane Poirot. Two of her best-known titles are the play The Murder of Archie Ackroyd , and the novel The Mousetrap , which you can still hear on the radio today.

2．You are a reporter in 1926, and Agatha Christie has agreed to answer five questions about her disappearance. Which questions will you ask? Choose five from the list below.

1) Why did you go away without telling anybody?

2) Were you feeling ill before you went away?

3) Did you know who you were?

4) Why did you leave your car at Newlands Corner?

5) How did you get to Harrogate?

6) Why did you choose the Hydro Hotel?

7) Why did you call yourself 'Mrs Teresa Neele'?

8) Are you in love with another man, and did you go away to meet him secretly?

9) The police thought you were dead, and your husband was the murderer. What do you say about that?

10) Your name is in every newspaper, and now more people will buy your books. Is that why you disappeared?

How did Agatha answer your five questions? Think of possible answers and write a report for the newspaper.

3．The police ask Archie a lot of questions after Agatha disappears. Complete their conversation (use as many words as you like).

POLICE:

POLICE:

Were ______?

ARCHIE:

ARCHIE:

NO, I wasn't. I was away, staying with friends.

POLICE:

POLICE:

And why ______?

ARCHIE:

ARCHIE:

She didn't want to. She didn't know these friends.

POLICE:

POLICE:

So did ______?

ARCHIE:

ARCHIE:

She didn't say she had any plans.

POLICE:

POLICE:

Mr Christie, where do you think ______?

ARCHIE:

ARCHIE:

I don't know. I just don't know.

POLICE:

POLICE:

Mm. Are ______?

ARCHIE:

ARCHIE:

Yes. Well, er...we're as happy as most husbands and wives.

POLICE:

POLICE:

I see. Tell me, Mr Christie, do ______?

ARCHIE:

ARCHIE:

Yes, of course I want her to come home!

4．Find the eighteen words hidden in this word search, and draw lines through them. Words go from left to right, and from top to bottom. All the words are four letters or more, and many letters are used more than once.

Now write down all the letters that don't have lines through them (begin at the top and go across each line to the end). You will have twenty-four letters, which will make five words.

1) What are the five words?

2) What two things are these five words used for?

3) How is a short fat Belgian with a moustache connected with these words?

4) How did the last three of the five words begin to change Agatha Christie's life?

5．Here are titles of five Agatha Christie books. Can you match each title with one of the story descriptions below?

The Moving Finger/Death on the Nile/Murder is Easy/At Bertram's Hotel/Murder on the Orient Express

1) There have been several murders in Miss Pinkerton's village. Luke tells Miss Pinkerton that it's hard to kill a lot of people. 'The police always find out,' he says. 'Oh no,' says Miss Pinkerton, 'it's not difficult at all...'

2) A famous train is stopped in the snow somewhere in Europe, and a man is found murdered in his bed. One of the passengers is the murderer—but which one?

3) Hercule Poirot is on holiday in Egypt, on a boat on one of the world's most famous rivers. But one of the other passengers, Linnet Ridgeway, tells him, 'I'm afraid...'

4) Someone is writing unkind letters to people living in the little town of Lymstock. Who is it? But the letters are only the beginning of the mystery. Soon someone dies.

5) A train is robbed... someone disappears... someone is shot. What is going on at Miss Marple's favourite hotel?

6．What do you think about detective stories, in books or in films? Complete these sentences with your own ideas.

1) I enjoy detective stories because ______.

2) I prefer detective stories which ______.

3) I like detectives who ______.

京权图字：01-2002-6588

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2002

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

德拉库拉 = Dracula／（英）斯托克（Stoker, B.）著；（英）莫厄特（Mowat, D.）改写；商海燕译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2003.6（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-3649-6

Ⅰ．德…　Ⅱ．①斯…②莫…③商…　Ⅲ．小说—对照读物—英、汉　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2003）第070418号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 易　璐

责任编辑：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2003年9月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-3649-6

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


1875年春，乔纳森·哈克因公出差去特兰西瓦尼亚，拜访德拉库拉伯爵。乔纳森其实并不想去，因为再有几个月他就要和他美丽的明娜结婚了，他现在不想离开她。

在德拉库拉城堡逗留期间，他坚持写日记，每天他都有越来越多可怕的事要写。为什么他只有在夜晚才能见到德拉库拉伯爵？为什么他在镜子里看不到伯爵？那三个有着血红的嘴唇和锋利的长牙，夜晚来到他屋里的美丽女人又是谁？

在英国的家里，明娜和她的朋友露西待在一个海边的小镇上。她期盼着乔纳森的来信，而他却音信全无，明娜有些害怕了。也许乔纳森病了，或是身处险境……

当然明娜并不担心自己或者她的朋友露西。住在一个安静的英国海边小镇上，什么样的危险能发生在这两个年轻姑娘的身上呢？

*本书题材虽为恐怖故事，但出版本书的目的在于为广大的英语学习者提供更为广泛的阅读素材。





DRACULA


In the spring of 1875, Jonathan Harker travels to Transylvania, on a business visit to the home of Count Dracula. Jonathan does not really want to go because in a few months' time he is getting married to his beautiful Mina, and he does not want to leave her.

While he is staying in Castle Dracula, he keeps a diary. And every day he has more and more terrible things to write. Why does he see Count Dracula only at night? Why can't he see the Count in the mirror? And who are the three beautiful women, with their red mouths and long sharp teeth, that come to his room at night?

At home in England, Mina is staying with her friend Lucy in a town by the sea. She waits for Jonathan's letters, but they do not come, and Mina is afraid. Perhaps Jonathan is ill, or in danger...

Mina is not afraid for herself, of course, or for her friend Lucy. What danger can there possibly be for two young women in a quiet English seaside town?





JONATHAN HARKER'S DIARY乔纳森·哈克的日记


乔纳森·哈克的日记

1Count Dracula


Count Dracula

My story begins about seven years ago, in 1875. My name is Jonathan Harker, and I live and work in London. My job is to buy and sell houses for other people. One day a letter arrived for me from a very rich man who lived in Transylvania. He wanted to buy a house in England and he needed my help. The man was Count Dracula, and I agreed to help him.

I found a house for him, and he asked me to take all the papers for it to Transylvania. I was not very pleased about this. I was planning to get married in the autumn, and I did not want to leave my beautiful Mina.

'But you must go, Jonathan,' she said. 'The Count is rich, and perhaps he will give you more work later.'

So I agreed to go. I did not know then of the terrible danger which waited for me in Transylvania.

And so, on 4th May I arrived at a little town called Bistritz. Transylvania was a strange and beautiful country. There were mountains, trees and rivers everywhere. And somewhere high in the mountains was the Count's home, Castle Dracula. I had six hours to wait before the coach came to take me there, so I went into a little hotel. Inside the hotel it was warm and friendly. The people there were all laughing and talking. 'Where are you going?' they asked me.

'To Castle Dracula,' I replied.

Suddenly the room was silent and everyone turned to look at me. I could not understand why they all looked afraid.

'Don't go there,' someone said.

'But I have to,' I answered. 'It's business.'

They began to talk again, but they were no longer laughing. Slowly, the hotel keeper's wife took the gold cross from her neck and put it into my hand. 'Take this,' she said. 'There is danger at Castle Dracula. Perhaps this will help you.'

When the coach arrived and I got into it, a crowd of people came to watch, and I heard the word 'vampire'.

The coach travelled up into the mountains. Higher and higher it went, faster and faster. The sun was bright, but above the trees there was snow on the mountain tops. Then suddenly. the sun went down behind the mountains and everywhere was dark. In the forest around us, the wolves were howling. It was a terrible sound.

Suddenly the coach stopped. A small carriage came down the narrow road on the right. Four black horses were pulling it, and the driver was dressed in black, with a black hat pulled down over his face.

'Where's the Englishman?' he called. 'I've come from Castle Dracula!'

He looked strange, standing there in the moonlight, and suddenly I was afraid. But it was too late. I could not go back now.

Soon we were on our way to Castle Dracula. The mountains were all around us and the moon was behind black clouds. I could see nothing—but I could still hear the wolves. The horses went faster and faster, and the driver laughed wildly.

Suddenly the carriage stopped. I opened the door and got out. At once the carriage drove away and I was alone in front of the dark, silent castle. I stood there, looking up at it, and slowly, the big wooden door opened. A tall man stood in front of me. His hair was white and he was dressed in black from head to foot.

'Come in, Mr Harker,' he said. 'I am Count Dracula.' He held out his hand and I took it. It was as cold as ice!

I went into the castle and the Count carefully locked the door behind me. He put the key into his pocket and turned to go upstairs. I followed him, and we came to a room where a wood fire burned brightly. In front of it there was a little table with food and drink on it. The Count asked me to sit down and eat, but he did not eat with me. Later, we sat and talked by the fire. His English was very good, and while we talked, I had time to look at him carefully. His face was very white, his ears were like the ears of a cat, and his teeth were strong like the teeth of an animal. There was hair on his hands and his fingers were very long. When he touched me, I was afraid.

It was nearly morning when I went to bed, and outside, the wolves were still howling.

The next morning I found my breakfast on the little table in front of the fire. Now that it was light, I could see that Castle Dracula was old and dirty. I saw no servants all that day.

The Count did not come to breakfast, but there was a letter from him on the table.

'Go anywhere in the castle,' it said, 'but some of the rooms are locked. Do not try to go into these rooms.'

When the Count came back in the evening, he wanted to know all about his new house in England.

'Well,' I began, 'it's a very big house, old and dark, with a high wall all round it. There are trees everywhere. That's why the house is dark. It has a little church too.' And I showed him some pictures of it.

He was pleased about the church. 'Ah,' he said, 'so I shall be near the dead.'

We talked for a long time and once I fell asleep. I woke up suddenly and found the Count's face near me. The smell which came from him was terrible. It was the smell of death.

'You're tired,' the Count said. 'Go to bed now.' And when he smiled, his face was the face of a wolf.

Our business was now finished. The Count had all the papers for his new house, and there was nothing to keep me in Transylvania or in Castle Dracula, but the Count did not want me to leave. I was alone with him in the castle, but I never saw him in the daytime. I only saw him at night when he came and sat with me. We always talked until the morning and he asked me many questions about England. 'I have plans to go there myself soon,' he said. 'Tell me about sending things to England by ship.' So we talked about ships and the sea, and I thought about Mina, and her friend Lucy. Lucy and her mother were staying by the sea, and Mina was planning to visit them there some time. Stupidly, I told the Count about them.

There was no mirror in my bedroom, but I had one with me, a present from Mina. One morning I was standing in front of it and I was shaving. Suddenly a hand touched me and a voice said, 'Good morning.' The Count was standing next to me. He was standing next to me, but I could not see him in the mirror!

My hand shook and I cut myself. Blood began to run down my face and I saw that Count Dracula was watching it hungrily. Suddenly he put out his hand. He had a wild look in his eyes, and I was afraid. But his hand touched the gold cross at my neck and his face changed. He took the mirror from me, went to the window, and a minute later the mirror was lying in a thousand pieces far below. He did not speak, but left the room quickly. And I stood there, and asked myself why I could not see this man in the mirror.

I went over to the window and looked out. I was high above the ground. Many of the doors in the castle were locked. Suddenly, I understood. I was a prisoner!

danger n. chance of suffering damage, loss, injury, etc. 危险．

danger

castle n. large fortified building or group of buildings with thick walls, towers, battlements and sometimes a moat. 城堡。

castle

coach n. large four-wheeled carriage pulled by horses and used (esp. formerly) for carrying passengers. 四轮大马车。

coach

friendly adj. showing or expressing kindness and helpfulness. 亲切的，友好的。

friendly

no longer after a certain point in time. 不再。

no longer

cross n. the frame made of a long vertical piece of wood with a shorter horizontal piece joined to it near the top. 十字架。

cross

crowd n. large number of people gathered together in the open. 人群。

crowd

howl v. long loud wailing cry of a dog, wolf, etc. （狗、狼等）尖利的长嚎。

howl

carriage n. vehicle (usu. with four wheels), pulled by a horse or horses, for carrying people. （通常为四轮的载客的）马车。

carriage

moonlight n. light of the moon. 月光。

moonlight

be dressed in wearing sth. 穿某物。

be dressed in

upstairs adv. up the stairs; to or on an upper floor. 向楼上，往楼上。

upstairs

finger n. any of the five parts extending from each hand. 手指。

finger

servant n. person who works in sb. else's household for wages, and often for food and lodging. 用人。

servant

once adv. at some (indefinite) time in the past. 一度，曾经。

once

wake up stop sleeping. 醒来。

wake up

mirror n. polished surface, usu. of coated glass or of metal, that reflects images. 镜子。

mirror

shave v. cut (hair) off the face, etc. with a razor. （用剃刀）刮（胡须等）。

shave

next to in the position after (sb. / sth.). 在（某人或物的）旁边。

next to

shake v. tremble. 发抖，打颤。

shake

prisoner n. person, animal, etc. that has been captured and is being kept in confinement. 囚犯。

prisoner

1．德拉库拉伯爵


我的故事发生在大约七年前，也就是1875年。我叫乔纳森·哈克，在伦敦生活和工作，我的职业就是替别人买卖房屋。一天，我收到了一个住在特兰西瓦尼亚的富翁的来信。他想在英国买幢房子，需要我帮忙。这个人就是德拉库拉伯爵，我答应帮助他。

我帮他找到了一幢房子，他让我带着所有跟这幢房子有关的文件去特兰西瓦尼亚。对此我很不乐意，因为我计划秋天结婚，我不想离开我美丽的明娜。

“但你必须去，乔纳森，”明娜说，“伯爵非常有钱，或许以后他会给你更多的工作。”

因此我就答应去了。那时，我并没有意识到一种可怕的危险正在特兰西瓦尼亚等着我。

于是5月4日，我到达了一个叫毕斯特里兹的小镇。特兰西瓦尼亚是个奇怪而美丽的国家。到处山峦起伏，树木葱郁，河流纵横。山中有一处高高耸立的地方就是伯爵的家，德拉库拉城堡。我必须等六个小时才能有马车来接我去那里，所以我就进了一家小旅馆。里面一派温暖祥和的气氛，那里的人们又说又笑，好不热闹。“你要去哪儿？”他们问我。

“去德拉库拉城堡。”我回答说。

屋内顿时一片寂静，人们都转过身来看着我。我不明白为什么他们看起来如此害怕。

“别去那儿。”有人说道。

“但我不能不去，”我回答道，“是公事。”

他们又开始说话，但不再有人大笑了。旅店的老板娘慢慢地摘下脖子上的金十字架，把它放到我的手里。“拿着这个，”她说，“在德拉库拉城堡有危险，也许这个能对你有点儿帮助。”

马车终于来了，当我坐进去时，一群人出来观看，我听到有人说“吸血鬼”这个词。

马车径直朝山上驶去，越走越高，也越走越快。这里阳光明媚，但树木上方的山顶上却是白雪皑皑。然后突然太阳落山了，四周一片黑暗。周围的森林里，传来狼嚎的声音，非常可怕。

忽然马车停了下来。一辆小型四轮马车从右边狭窄的山路上驶下来。拉车的是四匹黑马，车夫也身着黑衣，一顶黑色的帽子拉下来遮住了他的脸。

“那个英国人在哪儿？”他喊道，“我是从德拉库拉城堡来的！”

他站在月光下，看起来很怪异，我突然感到一阵恐惧。但已经太晚了，我现在已无法返回。

很快我们就上路直奔德拉库拉城堡。四周全是山，月亮被乌云遮蔽。我什么也看不见——但我仍能听到狼嚎的声音。马跑得越来越快，车夫大声狂笑着。

车突然停了。我打开门下了车。马车立刻就离开了，我被独自留在这个漆黑死寂的城堡前。我站在那儿，抬头望着城堡，这时那扇巨大的木门慢慢打开了。一个身材高大的男人站在我的面前。他满头白发，却从头到脚一身黑衣。

“请进，哈克先生，”他说，“我就是德拉库拉伯爵。”他伸出手，我握了一下。他的手冰凉！

我一走进城堡，伯爵就在我身后小心地把门锁上了。他把钥匙放进口袋，转身上楼。我跟着他来到一间屋里，壁炉里一堆柴火烧得正旺。炉火前面的一张桌子上摆着食物和饮料。伯爵让我坐下来吃点儿东西，而他却不和我一块儿用餐。后来我们就坐在火边谈话。他英语说得非常好，我们说话时，我也有了时间仔细打量他。他脸色苍白，耳朵有点儿像猫，牙齿却如野兽般锋利。他的手毛茸茸的，手指非常长。他碰到我时，我有些害怕。

天快亮时，我才去睡觉，外面，狼依然在嚎叫着。

第二天早晨，我发现早餐已放在炉火前的小桌上了。这时天已大亮，可以看出德拉库拉城堡又旧又脏。我一整天也没看见一个用人。

伯爵没有来吃早点，但桌上放着他写的一封信。

“你可以在城堡四处走走，”信上说，“但有些屋子是锁着的，不要试图进去。”

伯爵晚上回来后，想了解一下他英国的新房子的一切情况。

“嗯，”我说，“那是幢又大又暗的老房子，四周有高墙。到处都是树木，这也正是房子暗的原因。院里还有一个小小的教堂。”我让他看了房子的一些照片。

他对那座小教堂很满意。“啊，”他说，“这样我就可以离死人近些了。”

我们聊了很长时间，有那么一会儿我还睡着了。我忽然醒来，发现伯爵的脸离我非常近。他身上的气味令人难以忍受，那是一种死亡的气息。

“你累了，”伯爵说，“现在睡觉去吧。”他笑的时候，脸特别像狼的脸。

此时我们的生意已经谈完了。伯爵拿到了有关新房子的所有文件，我没什么理由继续留在特兰西瓦尼亚或德拉库拉城堡了，但伯爵并不想让我离开。只有我一个人和他待在城堡里，但我从未在白天见过他。只有晚上他过来和我聊天时，我才能见到他。我们总是谈到天亮，他问了我好多关于英国的问题。“我打算最近就去那儿。”他说，“告诉我如何用船把东西运往英国。”因此我们谈到了船和大海，我想到了明娜和她的朋友露西。露西正和她母亲住在海边，明娜也正打算去那儿拜访她们，和她们一起待上一段时间。我真愚蠢，居然把这些都告诉了伯爵。

我的卧室里没有镜子，但我带着一面小镜子，那是明娜送给我的。一天清晨，我正在镜子前刮胡子，突然一只手拍了拍我，有个声音说，“早上好。”伯爵站在我旁边。他就站在我旁边，但我在镜子里却看不见他 ！

我手一哆嗦，脸就划破了。鲜血顺着我的脸颊淌了下来，我注意到伯爵贪婪地盯着我的血。突然他伸出手来，眼中露出狰狞的目光，我害怕极了。但他的手碰到了我脖子上的金十字架，脸色一下子就变了。他从我手里夺过那面镜子，走到窗前，把它扔了出去，镜子一下子便远远地摔到地上成了碎片。他什么也没有说，便迅速离开了屋子。我站在那儿心里嘀咕，我为什么 在镜子里看不到他。

我走到窗边向外望去。我待的地方离地面很高，城堡里的门有很多都是锁着的。忽然间，我意识到，自己现在已是个囚犯！

2I am in danger


I am in danger

One evening the Count said, 'You must write to your London office and tell Mr Hawkin that you'll be here for another month.'

When I heard this, I went cold. Another month! But what could I do? I worked for Mr Hawkin, and the Count's business was important to him, so if the Count needed me, then I had to stay. I wrote my letter, but I knew that the Count planned to read it. I could not tell Mr Hawkin that I was a prisoner in Castle Dracula!

That evening the Count did not stay and talk with me, but before he left the room, he turned to me and said, 'My young friend, sleep only in this room or your bedroom. You must never fall asleep in any other room in the castle. You will be in danger if you do.'

When he left, I went to my room, but I could not rest and began to walk round the castle. Many of the doors were locked, but I found one which was open. I pushed back the door and saw that there was a window in the room. It was a beautiful night and the mountains looked wonderful in the soft yellow light of the moon. Suddenly, something moved below me. It was the Count. Slowly, he came out of the window—first those hands, like the hands of an animal, and then his head. He began to move down the wall, head first . With his black cloak around him, he looked like a horrible black bird—and my blood ran cold. What was Count Dracula?

I shivered, and sat down for a minute. The room was warm and friendly. I think that many years ago it was a room for the ladies of the castle, and I decided not to go back to my cold, dark room, but to sleep in this room. So I lay down and closed my eyes.

Suddenly I felt that I was not alone. In the moonlight from the window I saw three beautiful young women. They were watching me, and talking quietly. 'He is young and strong,' one of them said.

'Yes. There are kisses for all of us,' another answered.

I was excited and afraid. I knew that I wanted those soft red mouths to touch me.

One of the women came nearer. Her strong white teeth touched my neck. I closed my eyes and waited. 'Kiss me! Kiss me!' I thought.

Suddenly there was a cry of anger. It was the Count! He pulled the woman away from me, and her bright blue eyes turned red with a wild anger. I looked at the Count and his eyes were burning with all the fires of hell.

'Get off him!' he cried. 'He's not for you! Stay away from him.' A second later, the women were no longer there. They did not leave by the door, but they were no longer there!

I remember no more of that night. When I woke, I was in bed in my room. My gold cross lay on the table next to me, bright in the morning sun.

I knew then that those women were vampires, and that they wanted my blood.

Two nights later, the Count came to me. 'Write to Mina,' he said. 'Tell her that your work in Transylvania is finished and that you are coming home.'

How pleased I was when I heard this! But then the Count said, 'Say that you are at Bistritz, and put June 29th on the letter.'

I shivered when he said this. I knew then that the Count planned to kill me on that day. What could I do? There was nothing. I could only wait and try to escape. But the Count took away all my other clothes and my travel papers, and he locked the door of my room.

A week or two later, I heard noises in the castle, the sound of men working. 'Perhaps one of them will take a letter out of the castle for me,' I thought.

But it was too late! It was already June 29th, and that evening from my window I saw the Count leave the castle, with my letter to Mina in his hand. He was going to post it! I knew that I must do something before it was too late.

Vampires can only come out at night, so I knew that there was no danger during the day. The next morning I decided to visit the Count's room to see what I could find. To do this I had to get into it by the window. This was possible because his room was just below my bedroom, and there were little holes in the wall between the stones. I could put my feet in these, and I could use the heavy curtains from my window to hold onto. It was dangerous, but I had to try.

Slowly I moved down the wall. Once or twice I almost fell, but at last I found myself in the Count's bedroom.

The room was empty. The Count was not there. I looked for the castle keys, but I could not find them. Over in one corner of the room there was some gold, and on the other side of the room there was a big wooden door. It was open and I saw that there were some stairs going down. I went down them, and I came to another door. This was open too, and I found myself in a room with a stone floor. Slowly, I looked around me. There were about fifty wooden boxes in the room. They were coffins, and they were full of earth. In one of them lay the Count! I could not say if he was dead or asleep. His eyes were open and looked cold and stony, but his face did not look like the face of a dead man. His lips were still very red, but he did not move. Slowly I went nearer. I thought perhaps that he had the castle keys on him. But when I looked at those cold, stony eyes, my blood ran cold. Afraid, I turned and ran back to the window. I did not stop to think until I was back in my room.

That night the Count came to me again. 'Tomorrow you will return to England,' he said—and I knew that tomorrow was the day of my death.

I lay down on my bed, but I did not sleep very well. During the night I heard women's voices outside my door, and then the Count, saying, 'Wait. Your time has not yet come. Tomorrow night—you can have him then.' The women laughed, a low, sweet sound, and I shook with fear.

Morning came at last, and I was still alive. 'I must escape,' I thought. But first I had to get the keys.

Once again, I went down the wall and into the Count's room. I ran down the stairs, to the room with the coffins.

The Count was there, in his coffin, but he looked younger and his hair was no longer white. There was blood on his mouth, which ran down across his neck. My hands were shaking, but I had to touch him, to look for the keys. I felt all over his body, but they weren't there. Suddenly I wanted to kill Count Dracula. I took a workman's hammer, and began to bring it down hard on to that horrible, smiling face. But just then the head turned and the Count's burning eyes looked at me. His bloody mouth smiled more horribly than ever. I dropped the hammer and stood there, shaking. What could I do now?

Just then I heard the sound of voices. The workmen were coming back. I hurried back up the stairs to the Count's room. Below, I heard the noise of a key. The workmen were opening a door. So there was another door to the outside down there! I listened carefully, and heard the sound of hammers. They were getting the coffins ready for a journey—perhaps to England! I remembered the Count's words about his plans to visit my country.

I turned to run back downstairs, to find this open door. But I was too late. A cold wind ran through the castle and, with a crash, the door at the top of the stairs closed and locked itself. I could not get back down the stairs.

Soon I saw from the window the heavy carts full of coffins, and the workmen drove away. I was alone in the castle with those terrible vampire women.

While I was writing these words in my diary, I decided what to do. I must try to escape. I shall try to get down the wall outside. The window is high above the ground, but I have to try. I shall take some of the gold with me—if I escape, perhaps it will be helpful later.

If I die, it will be better than the death that waits for me here. Goodbye, Mina! Will I ever see you again?

write to write and send a letter to sb. 给某人写信。

write to

plan v. intend. 计划，打算。

plan

wonderful adj. be good and admirable. 极好的，奇妙的。

wonderful

cloak n. sleeveless outer garment hanging loosely from the shoulders, usu. worn out of doors. 斗篷，披风。

cloak

shiver v. tremble, esp. from cold or fear. 颤抖，哆嗦。

shiver

excited adj. feeling or showing excitement 兴奋的，激动的。

excited

hell n. place believed in some religions to be the home of devils and of wicked people after death. 地狱。

hell

get off leave. 离开。

get off

escape v. get free; getaway (from imprisonment or control). 逃脱，逃走。

escape

decide v. make up one's mind. 决定。

decide

curtain n. piece of material hung to cover a window, and usu. movable sideways. 窗帘。

curtain

hold onto keep grasping or gripping sb. / sth.; not let go of sb. / sth. 抓住某人或某物。

hold onto

coffin n. box in which a dead body is buried or cremated. 棺材。

coffin

stony adj. hard, cold, and unsympathetic. 冷酷的。

stony

not...until up to the time of (a specified event). 直到……才……

not...until

sweet adj. pleasing to hear, melodious. 悦耳的。

sweet

hammer n. tool with a heavy metal head at right angles to the handle, used for breaking things, driving nails in, etc. 锤子。

hammer

horrible adj. causing horror. 可怕的，令人恐惧的。

horrible

burning adj. intense; extreme. 强烈的，极端的。

burning

get ready for 为……作好准备。

get ready for

journey n. (distance covered in) travelling, usu. by land, from one place to another, often far away. 旅行。

journey

through prep. from one side of (a surface or screen) to the other. 穿过。

through

crash n. (loud noise made by a) violent fall, blow or breakage. 坠落（声），撞击（声）。

crash

cart n. vehicle with two or four wheels used for carrying loads and usu. pulled by a horse. （通常为马拉的两轮或四轮）马车。

cart

2．我身处险境


一天晚上伯爵说：“你必须给你伦敦的办公室写信，告诉霍金先生你要在这儿再待上一个月。”

听到这句话，我感到浑身冰凉。再待一个月！可我又能怎么办呢？我是为霍金先生工作的，伯爵的生意对于他来说非常重要，所以如果伯爵需要我，那我就必须留下来。于是我写了封信，但我知道伯爵肯定会看。我不能告诉霍金先生我成了德拉库拉城堡中的囚徒！

那天晚上伯爵没有留下来跟我谈活，但他临走前转过身来对我说：“我年轻的朋友，你只能睡在这个房间或你的卧室里。你决不能在城堡的其他任何房间里睡觉，否则你会有危险的。”

他一离开，我就到我的房间里去了，但我却无法入睡，于是就在城堡里转来转去。许多门都上着锁，但我发现有一扇门是开着的。我推门而入，看见屋里有一扇窗户。这是个美好的夜晚，群山在柔黄色的月光下显得那么美妙。突然，有什么东西在我下方移动，原来是伯爵。他正慢慢地爬出窗外——先是那双像动物一样的手，然后是他的脑袋。他开始头朝下地 顺着墙向下爬。黑色的斗篷罩在他身上，使他看起来像一只可怕的黑鸟——我吓得浑身发冷。德拉库拉伯爵到底是 什么东西？

我颤抖着坐了一会儿。这间屋子既暖和又舒适。我想多年以前，它应该是城堡里贵妇人的房间，我决定不回我那间又冷又黑的屋子了，而在这间屋里睡觉。于是我躺下来闭上了眼睛。

忽然我感觉自己不是独自一人。在从窗户透进来的月光下，我看见三个漂亮的年轻女子。她们正观察着我，并悄悄地交谈着。“他既年轻又强壮。”其中一个说道。

“是的。我们都可以吻他。”另一个回答道。

我既兴奋又害怕。我知道我想让那些柔软的红唇吻我。

其中一个女子渐渐走近我。她坚硬而洁白的牙齿触到了我的脖颈。我闭上眼睛等待着。“吻我！吻我！”我在想。

突然传来一声怒吼。是伯爵！他把那女子从我身边拉开，她那明亮的蓝眼睛因狂怒而变得通红。我望着伯爵，他的眼睛里燃烧着地狱之火。

“离开他！”他喊道，“他不是你们的！不要靠近他。”刹那间，那些女子便不见了。她们不是从屋门走出去的，但她们确实已不在那儿了！

那天晚上的其他事情我已记不起来了。当我醒来的时候，我已经躺在自己房间的床上了。我的金十字架放在旁边的桌上，在清晨的阳光下闪闪发光。

现在我知道那些女子是吸血鬼了，她们想吸我的血。

两天之后，伯爵来到我这里。“写信给明娜，”他说道，“告诉她你在特兰西瓦尼亚的工作已经完成了，准备回家。”

当我听到这句话时是多么高兴呀！但接着伯爵说道：“就说你在毕斯特里兹，信上注明6月29号。”

他说这句话的时候，我在发抖。我知道伯爵是打算在那天杀死我。可我又能怎么办呢？别无选择。我只能等待时机逃脱。可是伯爵拿走了我其他所有的衣服和旅行证件，并锁上了我的房门。

一两个星期以后，我听到城堡里有喧闹声，是人们干活的声音。“也许他们中有人能帮我把信带出城堡。”我想。

但是太晚了！已经是6月29号了，那天晚上透过窗户我看见伯爵离开了城堡，手里拿着我写给明娜的信。他准备把信寄走！我想我必须在一切还犹为未晚前做点什么。

吸血鬼只能在夜里出来，因此我知道白天不会有危险。第二天早晨我决定去窥探一下伯爵的房间，看看能找到什么。我只有通过窗户才能进到他的房间里去。这是可以做到的，因为他的屋子刚好在我的卧室下面，而且墙上的石头之间都有小洞，我可以把脚放在这些洞里，再抓着窗户上厚厚的窗帘。这很危险，但我必须试一试。

我慢慢地顺着墙向下移动。有那么一两次我差点掉下去，但最后我还是到了伯爵的卧室里。

屋子是空的，伯爵不在屋里。我找了找城堡的钥匙，但没找到。屋子的一个角落里有一些金子，另一边有一扇很大的木门。门是开着的，我看见有楼梯直通到下面。我下了楼梯来到另一扇门前。这扇门也是开着的，我发现自己已经进了一间石头铺地的屋子。我慢慢地环视了一下四周。屋里有大约50个木箱子。是棺材，里面装满了土，而伯爵就躺在其中一个棺材里！我看不出他是死了还是睡着了。他双目圆睁，看起来阴森森的，了无生气，但他的脸却并不像一个死人的脸。他的嘴唇依然是鲜红的，但他一动不动。我慢慢地靠近他。我想也许他身上有城堡的钥匙。但当我看着那双冷酷的眼睛时，我的血都凉了。我吓得转身跑回窗前。直到回到我的屋里，我才喘了口气想了想刚才的事情。

那晚，伯爵又来到我的屋里。“明天你就回英国吧。”他说——但我知道明天就是我的死期。

我躺在床上，但并没有睡好。晚上我听到门外有女人的说话声，然后又听到伯爵说：“等一等，还没到时候呢。明天晚上——他就是你们的了。”女人们笑了起来，声音很低，也很悦耳，我却吓得浑身发抖。

天终于亮了，我仍然活着。“我必须逃跑。”我想。但首先我要拿到钥匙。

我又一次顺着墙爬到伯爵的屋内。我跑下楼梯，来到了放棺材的屋子。

伯爵就躺在他的棺材里，但他看起来年轻了，头发也不再是白的了。他嘴上有血，顺着脖子流下来。我的手开始发抖，但我必须要接触他才能找钥匙。我摸遍了他的全身，但并没有找到钥匙。突然我想杀死德托库拉伯爵。我拿起一把工人用的铁锤，开始向那张可怕的、微笑着的脸使劲砸去。正在这时伯爵的头转了过来，用一双愤怒的眼睛看着我。他血淋淋的嘴笑得比先前更恐怖了。我丢了铁锤站在那里，浑身颤抖。我该怎么办呢？

正在那时，我听到有说话的声音。工人们回来了。我赶紧上楼回到伯爵的房间。我听到了下面有钥匙的响声。工人们正在开门。那么下面还有另外一扇门通到外面的！我仔细听着，好像有锤子的声音。他们正准备把这些棺材运出去——可能是运到英国吧！我记得伯爵说过他打算去我的国家。

我转身朝楼下跑去，想找到这扇开着的门。但我来得太晚了。一股阴风刮过城堡，“嘭”的一声，楼梯上面的门自动关上，锁住了。我无法从楼梯上下去了。

很快我透过窗户看见一辆辆装满棺材的马车，由工人们赶着远去了。只剩下我和那些可怕的女吸血鬼留在城堡里。

当我在日记中写下这些话时，我已经决定怎么做了。我必须设法逃走。我要顺着外面的墙爬下去。窗户离地面很高，但我还是要试一下。我要带上一些金子——如果我能逃脱，或许这些金子以后会有用的。

如果我死了，那也比在这儿等死要好。再见了，明娜！我还能再见到你吗？





MINA'S STORY明娜的故事


明娜的故事

3Lucy in danger


Lucy in danger

While Jonathan was away, I was very unhappy. He did not write to me often, and when he did, his letters were strange and very short. I knew that something was wrong. But what? Was Jonathan in danger? I thought about him all the time. Why didn't he come back to England and to me?

I felt better when, at last, I did get a letter from him. Jonathan said that he was coming home and was at Bistritz. But again it was a short, strange letter. 'Perhaps he's ill,' I thought.

My friend, Lucy, also wrote to me. 'I know that you will be happy for me,' she wrote. 'Arthur has asked me to marry him! Isn't it wonderful? I love him very much. He's away just now, and you know that Mother and I are staying at Whitby, by the sea. Please come and stay with us, and I can tell you all about it.'

Arthur Holmwood loved Lucy very much. I was really pleased to hear her news and I decided to go immediately. And it would help me not to think about Jonathan all the time.

Lucy met me at the station, and it was wonderful to see her again. She was full of life and talked happily of her plans. 'Oh, Mina,' she said to me. 'I am really happy. I love Arthur very much.'

But sometimes it was hard for me, because when Lucy talked of Arthur, I thought of Jonathan again.

The weather was good and Lucy and I walked a lot, sometimes by the sea, but we often went up to the old church on the hill.

At night, Lucy and I slept in one room, but sometimes she walked in her sleep. She began to sleep badly, and her mother and I decided to lock the bedroom door at night.

Then one day the weather changed. The sky was black and heavy, and that night there was a terrible storm. Lucy was very excited by it, and she sat by the window all night and watched the sea.

The next morning there was a ship on the beach.

'It's a Russian ship, from Varna on the Black Sea,' Lucy's servant told us. 'There are coffins on it, and they're full of earth. And a big black dog jumped off the ship and ran up the hill!'

'And is everyone on the ship alive?' Lucy asked.

'That's the strange thing about it,' the servant replied. 'There was no one on the ship, either dead or alive.'

Everybody in the town was very excited by this strange ship, but there were no answers to the mystery. And nobody saw the big black dog again.

That night I woke up and found that the bedroom door was open and Lucy was not there. I looked for her everywhere in the house, but I could not find her. 'I'm afraid for her, I don't know why,' I said to her mother.

I knew that Lucy sometimes liked to go and sit quietly in the churchyard, so I hurried out into the night to look for her. And I found her. She was sitting in the churchyard, white in the moonlight, and I thought I saw something dark behind her—something dark and horrible. Slowly, its head moved nearer to Lucy. Afraid, I called out, 'Lucy! Lucy!' A white face and burning red eyes looked up at me—and then, nothing! Lucy was alone, asleep in the moonlight. I woke her, and she gave a little cry. She put her hands to her neck, and I saw that there were two little drops of blood there.

After that night Lucy was worse. She left her bed every night and her lovely face was white. I was afraid for her and locked the door at night. And I still did not hear from Jonathan. I was unhappy and did not sleep well myself, so one night I went for a walk alone. 'Lucy will be all right,' I thought. 'The door is locked. She can't get out, and no one can get in.' But when I came back, I found Lucy by the open window. 'Lucy!' I cried. But she did not reply. She was asleep, and near her, just outside the open window, there was something black, like a big bird.

A day or two later, I had a letter. Jonathan was ill and in hospital in Budapest. 'Of course, I must go to him immediately,' I said to Lucy. I did not want to leave her, but Jonathan was everything to me. 'He needs me,' I said.

And when at last I arrived in Budapest and held Jonathan in my arms, I felt happy. Jonathan was very ill but he was getting better every day. He did not want to talk about his time in Castle Dracula, but he gave me his diary to read. And so I learnt about Count Dracula and Jonathan's terrible adventure in the castle. But he escaped! And when he fell ill in the mountains, some workmen found him and took him to the hospital. Poor Jonathan! His face was white and thin, and he was still very afraid, but now we were together again and everything was all right.

Jonathan and I were married on September 1st, and then we began our journey home. We arrived back in England on September 18th, and it was wonderful to be home again. Everyone looked happy on that warm autumn evening, when we drove through the streets of London. Jonathan smiled and said softly, 'Oh Mina, I love you.'

'I love you, too, Jonathan,' I replied. I was truly happy.

And then, suddenly, Jonathan's face went white, and he cried out. He was looking at a carriage, outside a shop. In it there was a pretty girl with dark hair. She was waiting for someone. And near the carriage, watching the pretty girl, there was a man—a tall, thin man, with long white teeth and a very red mouth. 'It's the Count!' Jonathan cried. 'Here in London!'

Jonathan put his head in his hands and said nothing for the rest of the journey. I was very afraid for him. Was it really true—that this horrible Count Dracula was here in London?

When we arrived home, there was a letter from Arthur Holmwood. Lucy was dead! My dearest Lucy, dead! It could not be true!

Later we read the letter again.

'Soon after you left,' Arthur wrote, 'Lucy began to get worse. I did not know what to do. I knew only that I must do something quickly, so I asked our old friend, Jack Seward, to come and see her. "He's a doctor," I thought. "Perhaps he can do something to help Lucy." He came at once, but in the end nobody could help poor Lucy, and she died yesterday.'

station n. similar place where buses and coaches top. 车站。

station

be full of having or containing much or many; crowded. 充足的，丰富的。

be full of

think of take sth. into account; consider sth. 考虑。

think of

beach n. stretch of sand or pebbles along the edge of the sea or a lake; shore between high and low water mark. 海滩。

beach

mystery n. thing of which the cause or origin is hidden or impossible to explain. 秘密。

mystery

churchyard n. enclosed area of land round a church, often used for burials. 教堂的庭院（常用做墓地）。

churchyard

call out say loudly to attract sb.'s attention; shout; cry. 大喊。

call out

hear from receive a letter, telephone call, etc. from sb. 接到某人的来信。

hear from

learn about become aware of (sth.) through information or observation; realize. 得知。

learn about

adventure n. unusual, exciting or dangerous experience or undertaking. 冒险。

adventure

hospital n. institution providing medical and surgical treatment and nursing care for ill or injured people. 医院。

hospital

3．露西身处险境


乔纳森离开的这段时间，我很难过。他总是不给我写信，即使写，也很短、很奇怪。我知道出事了。但出什么事了呢？乔纳森处境危险吗？我一直想着他。为什么他不同到英国、回到我身边呢？

最后，我终于收到了他的一封信，感觉好多了。乔纳森在信中说他就要回来了，正在毕斯特里兹。但这又是一封简短而奇怪的信。“他可能病了。”我想。

我的朋友露西也来信了。“我知道你会为我高兴的，”她写道，“阿瑟向我求婚了！太好了，对吧？我非常爱他。他刚刚离开，你知道我和母亲正住在海边的惠特比。来和我们住一段儿吧，我想把一切都告诉你。”

阿瑟·霍姆伍德深爱着露西。听到她的消息我非常高兴，决定马上就去那儿，这样我就不会老想着乔纳森了。

露西到车站去接我，又看到她真让人高兴。她精神焕发，兴高采烈地谈着她的计划。“噢，明娜，”她对我说，“我真的很兴奋。我太爱阿瑟了。”

但有时，我也很难过，因为当露西谈到阿瑟时，我就又想起了乔纳森。

天气很好，我常和露西出去散步，我们有时去海边，但很多时候都去山上的教堂。

晚上，露西和我同住一屋，但她有时梦游。她开始睡不好觉，我和她母亲决定晚上把卧室的门锁住。

后来有一天，天气突变。天空又阴又暗，那天晚上起了可怕的风暴。露西对此感到很兴奋，她整夜坐在窗前观看着大海。

第二天早上，海滩上出现了一艘船。

“那是艘俄国船，来自黑海的瓦尔纳，”露西的仆人告诉我们，“船上都是棺材，里面装满了土。一只大黑狗跳下船，跑到山上去了！”

“船上有人活着吗？”露西问。

“这事儿很奇怪，”仆人回答说，“船上没有人，死人活人都没有。”

镇上的人都对这艘奇怪的船很感兴趣，但没人能找到这起神秘事件的答案，也没有人再见过那只大黑狗。

那天夜里，我醒来发现卧室的门开着，露西不见了。我在家里四处找她，但没能找到。“不知为什么，我很为她担心。”我对她母亲说。

我知道露西有时喜欢去教堂的庭院中静静地坐着，于是我乘着夜色，匆匆地出去找她。我找到了她。她坐在教堂的庭院里，月光下她显得很苍白。而我好像看到她身后有个黑色的东西——一种黑色而可怕的东西。它的头正慢慢地靠近露西。我吓得大声叫喊：“露西！露西！”它抬起头来，脸色惨白，一双血红的眼睛死盯着我——突然间，一切又都没有了！露西一个人睡在月光下。我叫醒了她，她呻吟了一声。她用手去摸脖子，我看见她脖子上有两点血迹。

那一晚之后，露西的情况更糟了。她每晚都梦游，而且她可爱的脸也愈加苍白。我很为她担心，晚上就把门锁上了。仍然没有乔纳森的消息。我心情不佳，晚上也睡不好，于是一天晚上，我独自出去散步。“露西不会有事的，”我想，“门已经锁上了。她出不来，也没人能进得去。”但当我回来时，却发现露西站在敞开的窗户旁边。“露西！”我大叫。但她没有问答。她还睡着呢，而在她的旁边，就在敞开的窗户外面，有一个黑影，很像一只大鸟。

一两天以后，我收到了一封信。乔纳森病了，住在布达佩斯的一家医院里。“当然，我必须马上去看他。”我对露西说。我不想离开她，但乔纳森是我的一切。“他需要我。”我说。

当我终于到达布达佩斯，把乔纳森抱在怀里的时候，我感到非常高兴。乔纳森病得很重，但他正在一天天好起来。他不想谈他在德拉库拉城堡的那段日子，但他让我读了他的日记。我这才知道了德拉库拉伯爵以及乔纳森在城堡里的可怕经历。但他终于逃脱了！他在山里病倒后，一些工人发现了他，并把他送到了医院。可怜的乔纳森！他的脸苍白而消瘦，他仍然非常害怕，不过现在我们又在一起了，一切都很好。

我和乔纳森9月1日结婚，之后就启程回家。9月18日，我们回到了英国，回到家的感觉真好。在那个秋天温暖的黄昏，我们驾车在伦敦的大街上穿行着，人们看起来都很快乐。乔纳森微笑着轻声说：“哦，明娜，我爱你。”

“我也爱你，乔纳森。”我回答说。我真的幸福极了。

随后，突然间，乔纳森的脸变得煞白，大叫了一声。他正盯着一辆停在商店外面的马车看。马车里坐着一位黑头发的漂亮姑娘，她正在等人。马车附近，有个男人，正在注视着这个漂亮女孩——一个瘦高的男人，牙齿又长又白，嘴唇血红。“这就是伯爵！”乔纳森叫道，“他在伦敦！”

乔纳森手抱着头，余下的路上一句话也没说。我很为他担心。那是真的吗——那个可怕的德拉库拉伯爵就在伦敦？

我们到家时，收到了阿瑟·霍姆伍德的来信。露西死了！我最亲爱的露西死了！这不可能！

后来，我们又把这封信读了一遍。

“你走后不久，”阿瑟写道，“露西的病情就开始恶化。我不知道该怎么做，只知道必须马上做点儿什么，因此我找了我的朋友杰克·苏厄德来看她。‘他是个医生，’我想，‘或许他能做些什么来帮助露西。’他立刻就来了，但最终没有人能帮上可怜的露西的忙，她在昨天永远地去了。”





JACK SEWARD'S STORY杰克·苏厄德的故事


杰克·苏厄德的故事

4Lucy's death


Lucy's death

When I heard from Arthur the terrible news of Lucy's strange illness, I went to her immediately. I could see that she was very ill. She lay in bed all day and did not move. She was as white as a ghost and she was very thin. When night came, she was afraid to sleep, and in the morning, on her neck there were two strange little wounds.

I did not know what was wrong with Lucy. She was losing blood. But how? Was it through these two little wounds in her neck?

I decided to send for my old teacher Professor Van Helsing from Holland. Perhaps he could help.

He came immediately, and when he saw how ill Lucy was, he said, 'We must give her blood at once.'

'She can have my blood!' cried Arthur. 'All of it—to the last drop!'

Van Helsing was right. With Arthur's blood in her, Lucy began to get better immediately. But before he left, Van Helsing did one more thing. He brought some flowers with a very strong smell, and he put a circle of them round Lucy's neck. 'My dear,' he said, 'these are garlic flowers. Do not take them from your neck tonight, and do not open your window.'

Van Helsing had to return to Holland for a few days and before he left, he told us: 'You must watch Lucy every night, and be sure that she wears the garlic flowers.'

Lucy's mother was ill herself—her heart was not strong—and Arthur had to go back home because his father was dying. So for a week I watched over Lucy myself at night, and sometimes, when I sat by her bed, I heard strange noises at the window. Perhaps it was a tree, or the wind, I thought.

I was working at my hospital during the day, and after a week I was very tired, so one night I did not go to Lucy's house. I needed to sleep, and I knew that Lucy's mother and the servants were there. Also, Van Helsing sent new garlic flowers every day, for Lucy to wear at night.

The next morning at the hospital I had a note from Van Helsing. 'Watch Lucy carefully tonight,' he wrote. 'I shall be with you tomorrow.' But that was now today! The note was too late!

I did not wait for breakfast, but hurried to the house immediately. I knocked on the door, but there was no answer. Just then Van Helsing arrived.

'What happened?' he cried. 'Did you not get my note? Quick! Perhaps we are already too late!'

We knocked again, but there was still no answer. We went round to the back of the house and Van Helsing broke the kitchen window and we went in.

It was dark in the kitchen, but we could see the bodies of the four servants on the floor. They were not dead, but asleep. 'Someone put something in their drinks,' said Van Helsing. 'Come! We must find Lucy. If we are not too late!'

We ran up to Lucy's room, and stopped outside it. With white faces and shaking hands, we opened the door softly and went into the room.

How can I describe what we saw? The bodies of two women—Lucy and her mother—lay on the bed. The faces of both women were white, and on the mother's face there was a look of terrible fear. In her hand she held the flowers from Lucy's neck, and on the floor there was glass from the broken window.

Van Helsing looked down at the two women. 'The poor mother is dead,' he said. 'But for Lucy it is not too late! Go and wake the servants!'

I ran downstairs to wake them. 'Put her in a hot bath,' Van Helsing said.

After a time, Lucy began to show some life, and they took her and put her in a warm bed. From time to time she slept, but she did not fight to stay alive. She could not eat anything, and she was very weak. We sent for Arthur, and when he came, he was very unhappy. His father was now dead, and he could see that Lucy was very, very ill. One of us sat with Lucy all the time, and that night Arthur and Van Helsing slept in the sitting-room, while I watched over Lucy.

When Van Helsing came back up to me at six o'clock, Arthur was still asleep downstairs. Van Helsing went over to Lucy and looked at her. 'The wounds on her neck have gone,' he said. 'She will soon be dead. Bring Arthur.'

When Arthur and I came back, Lucy opened her lovely eyes. 'Oh, Arthur,' she said softly. 'Kiss me, my love.'

He moved his head nearer to her, but Van Helsing pulled him back. 'No!' he cried. For a minute, Lucy's face was hard and angry. She opened her mouth, and her teeth looked very long and sharp. Then her eyes closed and she slept. Soon she woke again, took Van Helsing's hand and said softly, 'My true friend.' And then, quietly, Lucy died.

'She's gone,' said Van Helsing, and Arthur put his head in his hands and cried.

Later, I went back into Lucy's room, and Van Helsing and I looked down together at her beautiful face.

'Poor girl,' I said. 'It is the end.'

'No,' he replied. 'This is only the beginning.'

Some days later there were strange stories in the newspapers, stories about young children who went out at night and did not go home until the next morning. And when they did go home, they talked about a 'beautiful lady'. All these children had drops of blood and two little wounds on their necks.

Van Helsing read these stories, and he brought the paper round to me. 'What do you think of that?' he asked.

'I don't know,' I said. 'These two little wounds sound like poor Lucy's wounds, but how can that be?'

Then Van Helsing explained. At first I could not believe it, and we talked for a long time. At last I said, 'Are you saying that poor Lucy was killed by a vampire, and that now the vampire is taking blood from these children too?'

'No,' Van Helsing replied. 'You haven't understood. The vampire which is taking blood from these children is ... Lucy herself.'

I was very angry. 'That's not true!' I cried.

'Then come with me,' he said. 'And I will show you.'

So that night he took me to Lucy's tomb. He had the key and we went inside. I was very afraid. In the dark, with the dead flowers lying on Lucy's coffin, the tomb was a terrible place. Slowly, Van Helsing began to open the coffin. Then he turned to me, and said, 'Look.'

I came nearer and looked. The coffin was empty.

For me, it was a terrible surprise, but Van Helsing only shook his head. 'Now we must wait outside,' he said.

We waited all night. I was cold and afraid, and angry with myself and with Van Helsing. Then, suddenly, something white moved in the trees near the tomb. We went nearer, and we found a little child on the ground, by the tomb. Van Helsing held it out to me, and I looked at its neck. 'There are no wounds on the child's neck,' I said.

'No,' Van Helsing replied. 'We are just in time.'

The next day, Van Helsing and I went back into the tomb again and opened the lid of the coffin. This time Lucy's body lay there. She died more than a week ago—but she did not look dead. Her mouth was red and her face was more beautiful than ever. Then Van Helsing pulled back her mouth and showed me her long, sharp teeth.

'Now do you believe me?' he said. 'Lucy is now one of the Un-Dead, and with these teeth she will soon kill one of these poor little children. We must stop her before she does.' He stopped for a minute and thought. 'But we must send for Arthur. He, too, must see—and believe this.'

Arthur was very unhappy, and also angry. He could not believe that Lucy was now one of the Un-Dead, but in the end he agreed to come with us to the tomb.

It was just before midnight when we got to the churchyard. The night was dark, but now and then, a little moonlight came through the clouds. Van Helsing opened the door of the tomb and we all went in.

'Now, Jack,' he said to me, 'you were with me yesterday afternoon. Was Miss Lucy's body in that coffin then?'

'It was,' I replied.

Slowly, Van Helsing opened the coffin. Arthur's face was white when he moved nearer. We all looked down. The coffin was empty!

For a minute, no one spoke. Then Van Helsing said, 'Now we must go outside and wait.'

It was good to be outside again, away from the dark, smelly tomb. We stood and waited in silence. Then, through the trees, we saw something white. It was moving nearer to us. Its face was white, its mouth was red, and drops of blood fell from it. Suddenly it saw us and stopped. It gave us a Look of terrible anger, and Arthur gave a little cry. 'It's Lucy!'

She smiled. 'Oh, Arthur, come to me. Leave those others, and come to me, my love,' she said sweetly.

Arthur took his hands from his face and opened his arms to her. She was moving nearer to him when Van Helsing ran between them, and held out his little gold cross. Lucy stopped and stood back from it. Then, with a look of terrible anger on her face, she went to the tomb and through the door. The door was closed, but she went through it !

'Now, Arthur, my friend,' Van Helsing said, 'do you understand?'

Arthur put his face in his hands and cried, 'I do! Oh, I do!'

The next day, Arthur, Van Helsing, and I went back to the tomb. Van Helsing had a bag with him, and when we were in the tomb, he again opened Lucy's coffin. The body lay there, horribly beautiful. Arthur was white and he was shaking. 'Is this really Lucy?' he asked.

'It is, and it is not. But wait, and you will see the real Lucy again,' Van Helsing replied.

He took from his bag a long piece of wood and a hammer. Arthur and I stood silent and watched. Then Van Helsing said to Arthur, 'You loved Lucy. You must bring her back to us. You must take this piece of wood in your left hand, and the hammer in your right hand. Then you must drive the wood through Lucy's heart. It isn't easy for you, but it will soon be done. Can you do this for her?'

'I can,' Arthur replied strongly.

His face was very pale, but he held the piece of wood over Lucy's heart. and brought the hammer down hard.

The body turned from side to side and a horrible scream came from the open red mouth. Arthur did not stop. Harder and harder he hit the wood with the hammer, until, at last, the body stopped moving and lay quiet.

The hammer fell from Arthur's hand, and he stood there, white and shaking. Van Helsing went over to him. 'And now you may kiss her,' he said. 'See! The vampire is dead, and the real Lucy has come back.'

It was true. Lucy's face was pale and still, but it was now quiet and restful. Arthur kissed her softly on the mouth, and then Van Helsing closed the coffin again, this time, for ever.

'Now, my friends,' Van Helsing said, 'we have only just begun. We must find the vampire that killed Miss Lucy. It will be difficult and dangerous. Will you help me?'

'Yes,' we said. 'We will.'

ghost n. spirit of a dead person appearing to sb. who is still living. 鬼。

ghost

send for ask or order that sb. should come. 派人去请。

send for

professor n. (title of a) university teacher of the highest grade who holds a chair in a subject. 教授。

professor

circle n. the line enclosing a circle; ring. 环，圈。

circle

garlic n. onion-like plant with strong taste and smell, used in cooking. 大蒜。

garlic

wear v. have sth. on one's body, esp. as clothing, or an ornament, etc. 戴，穿。

wear

note n. short letter. 便条。

note

knock v. strike (sth.) with a sharp blow. 敲。

knock

kitchen n. room or building in which meals are cooked or prepared. 厨房。

kitchen

shake v. (of a person) tremble; quiver. （指人）发抖，打颤。

shake

describe v. say what sb. / sth. is like; depict sth. in words. 描述。

describe

from time to time now and then, occasionally. 不时，间或。

from time to time

fight v. make (one's way) or achieve (sth.) by fighting or effort. （经奋斗或努力）获得（某事物）。

fight

sitting-room n. room in a private house for general use during the daytime. 起居室。

sitting-room

go over move from one (usu. distant) place to another. 从一处（通常为远处）到另一处。

go over

wound n. injury caused deliberately to part of the body by cutting, shooting. etc., esp. as the result of an attack. 伤。

wound

minute n. very short time; moment. 瞬间，一会儿。

minute

sound v. give a specific impression when heard. 听起来。

sound

explain v. make sth. plain or clear. 解释。

explain

show v. cause sb. / sth. to be seen. 给某人看。

show

tomb n. hole dug in the ground, etc. for a dead body, esp. one with a stone monument over it. 坟墓。

tomb

empty adj. having nothing inside. 空的。

empty

hold out stretch out. 伸出，端出。

hold out

in time not late. 及时。

in time

lid n. hinged or removable cover for a box, pot, etc. 盖子。

lid

pull back retreat or cause sth. retreat. 把……向后拉。

pull back

now and then at regular intervals. 时而，偶尔。

now and then

smelly adj. having a bad smell. 有臭味儿的。

smelly

silence n. not speaking, answering sth. spoken or written, making comment. 沉默。

silence

sweetly adv. in an attractive manner. 温柔地。

sweetly

bring back return back. 把……带回来。

bring back

drive v. force (sth.) to go in a specified direction or into a specified position. 敲，戳。

drive

still adj. (almost) without movement or sound. 死寂的。

still

restful adj. give a feeling of rest. 宁静的。

restful

4．露西之死


露西得了一种怪病，当我从阿瑟那里得知这个可怕的消息时，立刻去了她那儿。可以看出，她病得很重。她整天躺在床上，一动不动。她的脸像鬼一样惨白，而且很瘦弱。夜晚来临时，她害怕去睡觉，早晨，她的脖子上就会出现两个奇怪的小伤口。

我不知道露西到底怎么了。她一直在失血。但血是怎么失掉的呢？是通过她脖子上的那两个小伤口吗？

我决定派人去请我以前的老师，在荷兰的范赫尔辛教授。也许他能帮上忙。

他立刻就赶来了，当他看了露西的病情后，说：“我们必须马上给她输血。”

“她可以用我的血！”阿瑟大声说，“全部的血——直到最后一滴！”

范赫尔辛做得很对。有了阿瑟的血，露西马上开始好转了。但离开之前，范赫尔辛又做了一件事。他拿了一些味道很重的花，编成花环戴在露西的脖子上。“亲爱的，”他说，“这是大蒜花。今晚不要把它们从脖子上摘下来，也不要开窗户。”

范赫尔辛必须回荷兰几天，离开之前，他告诉我们：“你们必须每天晚上看着露西，确保她一直戴着大蒜花环。”

露西的母亲也病了——她心脏不好——阿瑟也不得不回家，因他父亲病危。所以有一周时间，晚上一直由我看护着露西，有时我坐在她床边，就会听到窗户那儿有奇怪的声响。我想也许是树，或者可能是风吧。

我白天在医院上班，一星期后，我已经很疲惫了，所以有一天晚上我没有去露西家，我需要睡一觉，而且我知道露西的母亲和仆人们都在那儿。而且范赫尔辛每天都会让人送来新的大蒜花，让露西在晚上戴着。

第二天早晨，我在医院收到了范赫尔辛的一张便条。“今晚要小心看护露西，”他写道，“明天我会到你那儿去的。”但现在已经是今天了！这张便条来得太晚了！

我没等吃早饭就立刻赶往露西家。我敲了敲门，但没人应。正在这时范赫尔辛也赶到了。

“出什么事了？”他大声说，“你没有收到我的便条吗？快点儿！也许我们已经太迟了！”

我们又敲门，但仍没有应答。我们就绕到屋子后面，范赫尔辛打破厨房的窗户，我们才爬了进去。

厨房里很暗，但我们可以看到地上四个仆人的躯体。他们没有死，只是睡着了。“有人在他们的饮料里放了东西。”范赫尔辛说，“快点儿！我们必须找到露西。希望还不是太晚！”

我们向楼上露西的房间跑去，在门外停了下来。我们脸色发白，双手发抖，轻轻地打开房门，走了进去。

我该怎么来描述眼前的情景？两个女人——露西和她妈妈——躺在床上。两人都面白如纸，而且母亲的脸上还有一种极度恐惧的表情。她的手里攥着从露西脖子上拿下来的花环，地上散落着窗户玻璃的碎片。

范赫尔辛俯身看了一下这两个女人。“可怜的妈妈已经死了，”他说，“但对于露西来说还不算太晚！去把那些仆人们叫醒！”

我跑下楼把他们唤醒。“把她放到有热水的浴盆里。”范赫尔辛说。

过了一会儿，露西开始有了一点生气，仆人们把她放在温暖的床上。她时醒时睡，但并不挣扎着求生。她什么也不能吃，非常虚弱。我们让人去找阿瑟，他来的时候非常伤心。他父亲已经去世了，他能看出露西病得非常非常严重。我们中总有一个人时刻和露西待在一起，晚上阿瑟和范赫尔辛睡在客厅，我看护着露西。

6点钟，范赫尔辛回到我这儿时，阿瑟仍在楼下睡觉。范赫尔辛走过去看了看露西。“她脖子上的伤口没有了，”他说，“她快要死了。把阿瑟叫来。”

我和阿瑟回来时，露西睁开了她迷人的眼睛。“哦，阿瑟，”她轻声说，“吻我，亲爱的。”

阿瑟把头靠近她，但范赫尔辛一把将他拉了回来。“别过去！”他大声说。有那么一瞬间，露西的脸变得又凶狠又愤怒。她张开了嘴，牙齿又长又尖。然后她闭上眼睛睡着了。很快她又醒了，拉住范赫尔辛的手，轻声说：“你是我真正的朋友。”然后露西就静静地死去了。

“她走了。”范赫尔辛说道，阿瑟用手抱住头痛哭起来。

过了一会儿，我回到露西的房间，和范赫尔辛一起看着她美丽的脸。

“可怜的姑娘，”我说，“一切都结束了。”

“不，”他回答说，“这仅仅是个开始。”

几天后报纸上报道了一些奇怪的事：一些小孩子夜里出去直到第二天早晨才回家。他们回到家时，总谈到一个“美丽的小姐”。他们的脖子上都有斑斑的血迹和两个小伤口。

范赫尔辛读了这些故事后，把报纸带到了我这儿。“你对此怎么想？”他问道。

“我不知道，”我说，“这两个小伤口听起来很像可怜的露西的伤口，但怎么可能呢？”

然后范赫尔辛做了解释。起初我不相信，我们谈了很久。最后我说：“你是说可怜的露西被一个吸血鬼害死了，而现在这个吸血鬼又从这些孩子身上吸血？”

“不，”范赫尔辛回答说，“你没弄明白。从这些孩子身上吸血的这个吸血鬼正是……露西本人。”

我很生气。“不可能！”我叫道。

“那么跟我来，”他说，“我要让你看看。”

于是那天晚上他把我带到了露西的墓地。他有钥匙，我们进到了里面。我非常害怕。四周一片黑暗，露西棺材上的花都已枯死，墓室显得非常恐怖。范赫尔辛慢慢地打开棺材，然后他转向我说：“看。”

我走近一看，棺材是空的。

对于我来说，这真是一件可怕的怪事，但范赫尔辛只是摇了摇头，“现在我们必须在外面等着。”他说。

我们在那里等了一夜。我又冷又怕，既恨自己，又怨范赫尔辛。突然，有一团白色的东西进了墓地附近的树林。我们走近一些，发现地上躺着一个小孩儿，就躺在墓穴旁边。范赫尔辛把孩子抱起来递给我，我看了一下孩子的脖子。“孩子的脖子上没有伤口。”我说。

“不，”范赫尔辛回答道，“我们来的正是时候。”

第二天我和范赫尔辛又来到了墓地，掀开棺材的盖子。这次露西的尸体躺在里面。她是一个多星期前死的——但她看起来根本不像死人。她的嘴红红的，脸前所未有地漂亮。然后范赫尔辛扒开她的嘴，让我看她那又长又尖的牙齿。

“这下你相信我了吗？”他说，“露西现在就是一个吸血鬼，她很快就会用这些牙齿害死其中一个可怜的小孩子。我们必须在她杀人之前制止她。”他停下来想了想，“但我们得让人去找阿瑟。他也必须看到——并且相信这件事。”

阿瑟很不高兴，也很愤怒。他不相信露西现在会是一个吸血鬼，但最后他还是答应和我们一块儿去墓地。

我们刚好在午夜之前到达了教堂墓地。夜色漆黑，但是云层间偶尔透出些月光。范赫尔辛打开墓室的门，我们走了进去。

“嘿，杰克，”他对我说，“昨天下午你和我一起来时，露西小姐的尸体在棺材里吗？”

“是的。”我回答说。

范赫尔辛慢慢地打开棺材。阿瑟走近时，脸变得煞白。我们都朝里望去。棺材是空的！

一时间，我们都默默无言。过了一会儿，范赫尔辛说：“我们必须去外面等着。”

离开这座阴暗难闻的墓室重新回到外面，感觉好多了。我们静静地站在那儿等着。就在那时，我们看到树林里有一个白影正向我们走来。它越走越近，脸色惨白，嘴唇血红，而鲜血又不时地从嘴里滴下来。突然它看见我们，停了下来，恼怒地盯着我们，神色可怕。阿瑟低声叫道：“是露西！”

她笑了。“哦，阿瑟，到我这儿来。亲爱的，离开那些人，到我这儿来。”她温柔地说。

阿瑟把捂着脸的手放了下来，他张开双臂，向她走去。她也慢慢地向他靠近，这时范赫尔辛跑到他们中间，拿出他的小金十字架。露西站住了，退回去想避开它。然后她带着一脸的愤怒，穿过门走进墓室。门是关着的 ，而她却穿了过去 ！

“现在，阿瑟，我的朋友，”范赫尔辛说，“你相信了吧？”

阿瑟抱着头哭道：“我相信了！哦，我相信了！”

第二天，阿瑟、范赫尔辛和我回到墓室。范赫尔辛拿着一个口袋，我们走进墓室，他又打开了露西的棺材。尸体躺在那儿，美得吓人。阿瑟脸色苍白，浑身发抖。“这真的是露西吗？”他问道。

“是的，但也不是。不过等一会儿你就会看到真正的露西了。”范赫尔辛回答道。

他从袋子里掏出一根长长的木条和一把锤子。我和阿瑟静静地站在那儿，看着他。范赫尔辛对阿瑟说：“你曾经爱过露西。你必须把她给我们带回来。你必须左手拿着这块木头，右手拿着锤子，然后把木头钉进露西的心脏。这对你来说很不容易，但很快就会做完的。你能为她做这件事吗？

“我能。”阿瑟坚定地回答。

他脸色苍白，但还是把木头放在露西的心脏上，用锤子猛地砸了下去。

尸体翻滚着，张着血红的嘴，发出凄厉的惨叫，但阿瑟没有停下来。他越来越猛烈地用铁锤敲击着木头，直到最后，尸体不动了，静静地躺在那里。

铁锤从阿瑟的手中滑落下来。他站在那儿，脸色苍白，浑身发抖。范赫尔辛走到他身边。“现在你可以吻她了，”他说，“看！吸血鬼死了，真正的露西回来了。”

确实如此。露西苍白而僵硬的脸，现在显得宁静而安祥。阿瑟在她的嘴上轻轻吻了一下，范赫尔辛重新盖上了棺材，这次是永远地盖上了。

“我的朋友们，”范赫尔辛说，“现在我们只是刚刚开始。我们必须找到害死露西小姐的那个吸血鬼。这既艰难又危险。你们愿意帮助我吗？”

“是的，”我们说，“我们愿意。”





JONATHAN HARKER'S DIARY乔纳森·哈克的日记


乔纳森·哈克的日记

5Mina in danger


Mina in danger

Some days after Mina got the Letter from Arthur, with the news of Lucy's death, she had another letter. This was from Professor Van Helsing, a friend of Arthur's. In it he wrote, 'I know, from your letters to Lucy, that you were her dearest friend. I would very much like to meet you, to talk about the time when you were with Lucy at Whitby.'

So the Professor came to see us at our house, and we learnt the full story of poor Lucy's terrible death. Then Mina gave Van Helsing my diary to read, and he learnt about my time at Castle Dracula. He was very excited.

'Ah!' he cried. 'Now I begin to understand so many things! This Count Dracula—he was the vampire that killed poor Miss Lucy. Will you help us to find him?'

Of course, Mina and I agreed to help. When I saw Count Dracula in London, I was very afraid, but now I felt stronger because I had work to do.

We began at once. Mina went to stay with Jack Seward at his house, to tell him and Arthur all about the Count, and I went to Whitby. I wanted to find out about the coffins that were in the ship on the night of the storm—the ship that brought Count Dracula to England. After many questions, I learnt that the coffins were now in the Count's house in London.

I hurried back to London and to Jack Seward's house. When I told Van Helsing this news, he called us all together, and said, 'Now the danger begins. I have learnt much about vampires from old books, and I know that they can come out only at night. During the day they are like dead bodies and must have a place to hide. I think that Count Dracula uses his coffins for his daytime hiding places. If we can find him in a coffin. we can kill him. But let's go to his house tonight. We'll put holy bread in the coffins, and then the Count cannot get back into them. He'll then have no place to hide during the day, and he will be weaker, and easier to fight when we find him.'

So that night Van Helsing, Jack, Arthur, and I went out together to the Count's house. Mina, of course, did not come with us. I was afraid to leave her alone, but she said that there was more danger for us than for her.

Jack had some old keys with him, and with one of these we got into the house. It was old and dirty, and the smell of blood was everywhere. We walked through the cold, empty rooms and at last we found the coffins.

From his bag Van Helsing took some holy bread. 'We must put a piece of this in each coffin,' he said.

We worked hard. It took a long time to break open each coffin and put holy bread inside. We were just opening the last coffin when Van Helsing gave a cry. 'We are too late! The Count is coming!'

We looked up from our work and saw Count Dracula. He came through the dark room like a black cloud. His angry face was white and his eyes burned like red fires. Van Helsing held out his gold cross, and the Count stopped. Afraid for our lives, we ran from the house.

'Quick!' cried Van Helsing. 'We must get back! Now he has seen us, Mina may be in danger!'

My heart nearly stopped when I heard this. 'Oh, Mina!' I cried silently. 'I cannot lose Mina!'

But when we got back to Jack's house, everything was quiet. I ran upstairs. The bedroom door was locked. I called out to my friends. 'Help me! Oh, help me!'

Together we broke down the door—and then my blood ran cold. A tall dark man was standing in the moonlight, by the window. In his arms he held my wife, my Mina! Her white nightdress had blood on it, and her face lay against Count Dracula. Blood dropped from his mouth, and he was holding Mina to him while she drank his blood !

I ran to her and tried to pull him away from her. Van Helsing ran at the Count and held up his gold cross.

When he saw the cross, Count Dracula moved back and dropped Mina's body. She gave a terrible cry and fell across the bed. A cloud moved across the moon, and when the moon came from behind it, Count Dracula was not there.

'Oh, Mina, my love!' I cried. I took her in my arms. 'What has happened? Tell us!' I was wild with fear.

Mina shivered. 'Don't leave me!' she cried. 'Oh, please don't leave me!' Her face was pale, and we could see two little wounds on her neck. She put her head in her hands and gave a long, terrible scream. 'Stay with me!' she cried.

And I held her in my arms until the first light of day showed in the east.

understand v. perceive the explanation for or cause of. 了解。

understand

find out learn by study or inquiry. （经研究或询问）获知。

find out

hiding-place n. place where sb./ sth. is or can be hidden. 藏身处。

hiding-place

holy adj. regarded as sacred. 神圣的。

holy

it takes sb. some time to do sth. 花某人一段时间干某事。

it takes sb. some time to do sth.

call out summon sb., esp. to an emergency. 召唤。

call out

break down make sth. collapse by striking it hard. 猛击某物使之毁坏。

break down

nightdress n. long loose garment worn by a woman or child in bed. 睡袍。

nightdress

5．明娜身处险境


明娜收到阿瑟的信，得知露西去世的消息几天后，她又收到一封信。这是阿瑟的一个朋友，范赫尔辛教授写来的。他在信中写道：“我从你给露西的信中得知，你是她最亲密的朋友。我非常想见见你，谈一谈你和露西在惠特比时的情况。”

后来，教授到家中来看我们，我们也由此知道了可怜的露西去世的全部可怕的经过。明娜给范赫尔辛看了我的日记，他知道了我在德拉库拉城堡的经历。他很激动。

“啊！”他大声说道，“现在我开始弄明白很多事了！这个德拉库拉伯爵——他就是害死可怜的露西小姐的那个吸血鬼。你们愿意帮我们找到他吗？”

我和明娜当然同意帮忙。在伦敦见到德拉库拉伯爵时，我很害怕，但现在因为有正经事要做，我感觉坚强多了。

我们马上开始行动。明娜去住在杰克·苏厄德的家，告诉他和阿瑟关于伯爵的一切情况，而我去了惠特比。我想了解在暴风雨的那天晚上，船上那些棺材的去向——就是那艘把伯爵带到英国的船。经多方打听，我得知那些棺材就在伯爵在伦敦的家里。

我匆匆赶回伦敦，又去，杰克·苏厄德的家。当我把这个消息告诉范赫尔辛时，他把我们召集到一起说：“现在危险降临了。我从古书上了解到吸血鬼的不少情况，我知道他们只能在晚上出来，白天他们就像死尸一样，而且必须找个地方躲起来。我想德拉库拉伯爵就是把那些棺材当作了他白天的藏身之地。如果我们能在棺材里找到他，就可以杀死他。但今晚咱们到他的住所去一趟，在那些棺材里放上圣餐饼，这样伯爵就不能再回到那里面去了。他白天就没有了藏身之处，会变得越来越虚弱，那么我们在找到他时，打败他也会容易些。”

那天晚上，我、范赫尔辛、杰克·苏厄德和阿瑟一起去了伯爵的住宅。当然明娜没和我们一起去。把她独自留在那儿我很害怕，但她说我们要比她危险得多。

杰克·苏厄德带了几把旧钥匙，我们用其中一把打开门，进入那房子。那里又旧又脏，而且到处弥漫着血腥味儿。我们穿过很多阴森森的空屋子，终于找到了那些棺材。

范赫尔辛从他的袋子掏出一些圣餐饼。“我们必须在每具棺材里放一块。”他说。

我们的工作很费力。要用很长时间才能打开一副棺材，把圣餐饼放进去。当我们正要打开最后一个棺材时，范赫尔辛叫了一声：“我们太迟了！伯爵回来了！”

我们停下工作，抬起头来，看见了德拉库拉伯爵。他像一片乌云一样穿过黑暗的房间。他一脸怒容，面色惨白，眼睛像两团燃烧着的红色火焰。范赫尔辛举起了他的金十字架，伯爵停住了。我们害怕有生命危险，就迅速离开了那座房子。

“快点！”范赫尔辛喊道，“我们必须回去！现在他已经看见我们了，明娜可能有危险！”

听到这话，我的心脏几乎停止了跳动。“哦，明娜！”我心里喊着，“我不能失去明娜！”

但当我们回到杰克的家时，四处一片寂静。我跑上楼梯，卧室的门锁上了。我对着朋友们大喊：“帮帮我！哦，帮我一把！”

我们一起把门撞倒——然后我的血一下子变冷了。一个高大的黑衣男人站在窗前的月光下。他怀里抱着我的妻子，我的明娜！她白色的睡衣上有血迹，她的脸靠着德拉库拉伯爵。血从他的嘴里滴下来，他正把明娜拉向他，而她在喝他的血 ！

我奔向她，试图把他从她身边拖开。范赫尔辛跑到伯爵面前，举起了他的金十字架。

看到十字架时，德拉库拉伯爵丢下了明娜，向后退去。她发出了一声令人恐惧的尖叫，横倒在床上。一片乌云遮住了月光，当月亮从云中钻出来时，德拉库拉伯爵已经不见了。

“哦，明娜，我亲爱的！”我叫着，把她抱在怀里，“怎么了？告诉我们！”我害怕得要发疯了。

明娜颤栗着。“不要离开我！”她哭喊着，“哦，请不要离开我！”她脸色苍白，我们可以看见她脖子上有两个小伤口。她双手抱头，发出一声长长的恐怖的尖叫。“不要离开我！”她大叫着。

我一直把她抱在怀里，直到东方出现第一缕曙光。

6Dracula must die


Dracula must die

The next day Van Helsing, Jack Seward, Arthur, and I made our plans. Mina was there too. She was very pale, but she wanted to help us. We knew that we had to kill Dracula before Mina died.

'If we don't,' Van Helsing said, 'Mina will die and will be a vampire for ever. I have been back to the Count's house this morning, and the last coffin has gone. We must find it. Count Dracula will be in it during the day. If we can find him before dark, we can kill him.'

'But where is it now?' I asked wildly.

Of course, we did not know the answer. But then Mina spoke. 'I feel that I am half a vampire already, and sometimes strange thoughts come into my head. I think that these thoughts are Count Dracula's. Just now, when you were speaking, I thought that I could hear the sound of a ship moving through water.'

'Of course!' cried Van Helsing. 'Dracula has decided to leave England! He knows now that we are his enemies and that it is dangerous for him here. So he is going back to Transylvania—by ship! We must find out which ships left for the Black Sea last night.'

At the London shipping office we learnt that one ship sailed for Varna in the Black Sea the night before. We also learnt of a passenger who arrived at the last minute—a tall thin man in black. He had a pale face, burning eyes, and a very red mouth. And he had with him a long box!

'So,' said Van Helsing. 'The ship will take about three weeks to sail to Varna, but we will take the train across Europe and get there much faster. We leave tomorrow!'

We left London on a cold October day and four days later we were in Varna. We made our plans, and waited for the ship to arrive. Every day Mina told us that she could still hear the sound of water. But three weeks went by, and the ship did not arrive. Then, at last, we had news—the ship was not coming to Varna, and was already at Galatz!

We took the first train to Galatz, but we were too late. The box was no longer on the ship. 'Someone came and took it this morning,' one of the sailors told us.

We hurried back to our hotel to tell my dear Mina the news, but we saw that she knew it already, and her face was white with fear. 'He has gone,' she said quietly, 'and he is taking me with him. Oh my dear friends! Before I change into a vampire, you must kill me! Then you must do what you did to poor Lucy, to give me rest. Tell me that you will do this for me!'

I held her hands, but I could not speak. If that day ever comes, I don't know how I shall live through it.

Later, while Mina slept, we tried to make new plans.

'She is right,' said Van Helsing unhappily. 'Our poor Mina is in great danger. She is already beginning to change—her teeth are getting longer and sharper, and when the Count reads her thoughts, her eyes are hard and cold. We must find him and kill him—before it is too late!'

I can remember little of the next few days. I was wild with fear and anger. We learnt that the Count's coffin was travelling by boat up the river, and Jack Seward, Arthur, and I began to follow in another boat. Van Helsing took my Mina with him in a carriage, and they began to drive across the mountains to Castle Dracula. When I said goodbye to her, my heart was breaking. Perhaps I shall never see her again.

We followed the Count's boat for five days, but we could not catch it. Then we learnt from some villagers that he was now travelling by road, so we bought horses and rode like the wind through the night.

By late afternoon on the next day, we were getting near to Castle Dracula. 'We must ride faster!' I cried to the others. The sun was beginning to go down and then, suddenly, we saw on the road in front of us some men with a cart. And on the back of the cart was the coffin.

I had only one thought in my head—to kill the vampire, to finish him for ever. Arthur and Jack were right behind me when I got to the cart. I jumped from my horse onto the cart, and while Jack and Arthur fought the driver and the other men, I pushed the coffin to the ground. It fell and broke open. Count Dracula lay there, and the last light from the sun fell on his terrible face. His eyes burned red and they looked at me in hate. In a few seconds, when the sun went down, he would be free to move. I jumped down to the ground, held my knife high over his heart, and brought it down as hard as I could. It went straight through the vampire's heart. Count Dracula gave a horrible scream, and then lay quiet. In the same second the sun went down, and when we looked into the coffin again, it was empty...

Above us on the hill was Castle Dracula, and soon we saw Van Helsing. He hurried down the hill to us, and my dear Mina was with him. I ran to her and took her in my arms. Her lovely face was bright and happy again. 'It's all right, my love,' she said softly. 'We found the tombs of the three vampire women. They cannot hurt us now, and Dracula is dead at last! We can begin to live again.'

dangerous adj. likely to cause danger or be a danger. 有危险的。

dangerous

shipping office 海运事务所。

shipping office

learn of become aware of through information or observation. 得知。

learn of

passenger n. person traveling in a car, bus, train, plane, ship, etc., other than the driver, the pilot or a member of the crew. 乘客。

passenger

go by pass. （指时间）过去。

go by

sailor n. member of a ship's crew, esp. one below the rank of officer. 水手，海员。

sailor

live through experience sth. and survive. 经历某事而幸存。

live through

follow v. (cause sth. to) come, go or take place after (sb./ sth. else) (in space, time or order). 跟着。

follow

go down (of the sun and moon) disappear beneath the horizon; set. （指日、月）落下。

go down

ride v. sit on a horse. etc. and be carried along. 骑马。

ride

second n. short time, moment. 片刻，一会儿。

second

straight adv. by a direct route. 径直。

straight

6．德拉库拉必须死


第二天，我和范赫尔辛、杰克·苏厄德、阿瑟一起制定了计划。明娜也在。她非常苍白，但也想帮助我们。我们知道必须在明娜死去之前除掉德拉库拉。

“如果我们不杀掉他，”范赫尔辛说，“明娜就会死，而且将永远成为一个吸血鬼。我今天早晨又去了伯爵的家，最后一副棺材不见了。我们必须找到它。白天德拉库拉伯爵一定会待在里面。如果能在天黑之前找到他，我们就能杀死他。”

“但现在它在哪呢？”我近乎疯狂地问道。

我们当然不知道答案。但这时明娜说话了。“我感觉自己已经是半个吸血鬼了，有时一些奇怪的想法会侵入我的脑子。我想这些想法是来自德拉库拉伯爵的。刚才，你们说话时，我好像听到了船在水里行进的声音。”

“当然了，”范赫尔辛叫道，“德拉库拉已决定离开英国！他知道我们现在都与他为敌，他在这儿很不安全。所以他现在正返回特兰西瓦尼亚——肯定是乘船！我们必须弄清楚昨天晚上是哪一艘船离开此地开往黑海的。”

在伦敦海运事物所，我们得知前一天晚上有一艘船开往黑海的瓦尔纳。我们还听说有一位乘客在最后一刻才到——一个身穿黑色衣服，又高又瘦的男人。他脸色惨白，两眼通红，长着一张血红的嘴。他还带着一个很长的箱子！

“那么，”范赫尔辛说道，“这只船要用大约三个星期才能到瓦尔纳，但我们可以乘火车横跨欧洲大陆更快地到达那里。我们明天出发！”

在十月一个寒冷的日子，我们离开了伦敦，四天后到达了瓦尔纳。我们作了周密的安排，只等轮船到达。每天明娜都会告诉我们，她依然可以听到流水的声音。但三个星期过去了，船还是没到。最后，消息传来——船已到达加拉茨，不来瓦尔纳了！

我们坐第一班火车去了加拉茨，但还是太晚了。箱子已不在船上。“今天早晨有人来把它取走了。”一个水手告诉我们。

我们又匆忙赶回旅馆，把这个消息告诉了我亲爱的明娜，但显然她已经知道了。她的脸吓得发白。“他走了，”她平静地说，“也把我带走了。哦，我亲爱的朋友们！在我变成一个吸血鬼之前，你们一定要杀了我！你们一定要像对待可怜的露西那样来处置我，让我安息。答应我你们会为我那样做的！”

我握着她的手，一句话也说不出来。如果那一天真的来了，我不知道自己该怎样熬过去。

后来，明娜睡着了，我们又做了新的打算。

“她说对了，”范赫尔辛忧郁地说，“我们可怜的明娜情况十分危急。她已经开始变了——她的牙齿越来越长，越来越尖，当伯爵侵入她的思想时，她的眼神就变得僵直而冷酷。我们必须找到并杀掉他——趁一切还不算太晚！”

以后几天的事情我几乎什么都记不得了。我既害怕又愤怒，几乎要发疯了。当得知伯爵的棺材已用船运往河的上游后，我和杰克·苏厄德还有阿瑟开始乘另一艘船追去。范赫尔辛则带着我的明娜乘坐马车，要翻过山去德拉库拉城堡。和她告别时，我的心都碎了。也许我永远也不会再见到她了。

我们跟着伯爵的船走了五天，但还是没有赶上。后来一些村民告诉我们，他们现在走陆路，于是我们就买了马，像风一样在黑夜里狂奔。

第二天黄昏时，我们已接近德托库拉城堡了。“我们必须加快速度！”我对他们两人喊到。太阳已开始西沉，突然我看见前面路上有一些人赶着马车，而马车后面装的就是那副棺材。

我的脑子里只有一个念头——杀掉那个吸血鬼，让他永远消失。我追上马车时，杰克和阿瑟紧随着我。我从马上跳到了马车上，杰克和阿瑟则和车夫及其他人搏斗，我把棺材推到地上。棺材落下来，裂开了。德托库拉伯爵就躺在那儿，太阳的最后一束光线照在他可怕的脸上。他的眼睛里燃烧着仇恨的火焰，直直地盯着我。再过几秒钟，当太阳落山时，他就可以自由活动了。我跳到地上，高高地举起了手中的匕首，用尽全力刺向他的心脏。匕首直穿入那吸血鬼的心脏。德拉库拉伯爵发出一声凄厉的惨叫，然后就一动不动了。就在同时，太阳落了下去，我们再朝棺材里看时，里面已经空了……

山上就是德拉库拉城堡，我们很快就见到了范赫尔辛。他正匆匆地下山来找我们，我的明娜也和他在一起。我跑过去把她抱在了怀里。她可爱的脸上又充满了快乐和幸福。“好了，我亲爱的，”她轻轻地说，“我们找到了那三个女吸血鬼的墓地，她们现在已无法伤害我们了，德拉库拉也终于被除掉了！我们又可以开始新的生活了。”





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1. Read the story introduction of the book. How much do you know now about this story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Count Dracula is a vampire.

YES □／NO □

2) He lives in a castle in England.

YES □／NO □

3) Jonathan Harker is going to marry Mina.

YES □／NO □

4) He is enjoying his stay in Castle Dracula.

YES □／NO □

5) He meets three beautiful women there.

YES □／NO □

6) Mina is also staying in Transylvania.

YES □／NO □

7) She gets lots of letters from Jonathan.

YES □／NO □

8) She is afraid that Dracula will hurt her.

YES □／NO □

2. Can you guess what happens in this story? Use this table to make some sentences about your guesses.





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1. Read Chapters 1 and 2, (Jonathan Harker's Diary ), and then answer these questions.

Why

1) ...didn't Jonathan want to go to Transylvania?

2) ...was Count Dracula pleased that his new house in England had a little church?

3) ...was Jonathan afraid when he looked in the mirror?

4) ...did the three women want to kiss Jonathan?

5) ...couldn't Jonathan leave the castle?

6) ...didn't Jonathan kill the Count in his coffin?

7) ....did Jonathan decide to escape?

2. Read Chapter 3 (Mina's Story ). What did Mina see, hear, or do? Complete these sentences with words from the chapter.

1) At Whitby she heard about ____ which jumped off the strange ship from Varna.

2) She saw ____ behind Lucy in the churchyard.

3) Then she saw ____ on Lucy's neck.

4) She went ____ because Jonathan was ill there.

5) In Jonathan's diary she read about his____.

6) She saw ____ in the streets of London.

7) In a letter from Arthur she heard that____.

3. Before you read Chapter 4, can you guess the answers to these questions?

1) Will Arthur Holmwood find out why Lucy died?

2) What will happen to Lucy after her death?

4. Read Chapter 4, (Jack Seward's Story ), and then answer these questions.

1) Who was Jack Seward?

2) What did Jack see on Lucy's neck?

3) Who was Professor Van Helsing?

4) What did Van Helsing say they must do?

5) Why weren't Arthur, Van Helsing, or Jack with Lucy on the night that Dracula came?

6) Why did Lucy ask Arthur to kiss her?

7) What happened to Lucy after her death?

8) What did Arthur have to do to Lucy?

9) What did the three men decide to do after that?

5. Before you read Chapters 5 and 6, can you guess what happens? Choose Y (yes) or N (no) for each sentence.

1) Van Helsing asks Jonathan and Mina to help.　Y/N

2) The friends find Dracula in England and kill him.　Y/N

3) Dracula catches one of the friends and drinks their blood.　Y/N

4) One of them begins to change into a vampire.　Y/N

5) One of them dies and becomes a vampire.　Y/N

6) Dracula escapes and the friends never find him.　Y/N

7) Dracula kills two of the friends.　Y/N

8) In the end one of the friends kills Dracula.　Y/N

6. Read Chapters 5 and 6, (Jonathan Harker's Diary ), and then join these halves of sentences.

1) Dracula's London house was full of coffins...

2) On the night when the four men went out to put holy bread in Dracula's coffins,...

3) Mina knew that Dracula was on a ship...

4) The friends went by train to Varna,...

5) Mina wanted her friends to kill her...

6) Jonathan, Arthur, and Jack caught Dracula's cart in the mountains,...

7) Jonathan pushed the coffin to the ground...

8) When they looked into the coffin again,...

9) before she changed into a vampire.

10) because she could hear his thoughts in her head.

11) it was empty.

12) Dracula found Mina alone in Jack Seward's house.

13) just before the sun went down.

14) but there they learnt that Dracula's ship was at Galatz.

15) and drove his knife deep into Dracula's heart.

16) because he used them as daytime hiding-places.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


1. What is a vampire? Complete the passage with these words from the story. (Use each word once.)

become, bites, blood, bread, coffin, cross, day, dead, garlic, hammer, heart, ill, mirror, night, sharp, wood, wounds

A vampire is the body of a ____ person that drinks the ____ of living people. If you look at a vampire in a _____, you see nothing. During the ____ it lies quietly in its ____, but at ____ it comes out and tries to catch people. It has long ____ teeth, and it ____ into people's necks and leaves two small ____ there. After a time the person will get ____ and die, and then ____ a vampire too.

You can frighten a vampire away if you wear a circle of ____ flowers around your neck. Or you can hold a holy ____, or put holy ____ in its coffin. The best way to kill a vampire is to take a ____ and drive a long piece of ____ through the vampire's ____.

2. Now write a short description of Count Dracula. Use these notes to help you.

· tall, thin / clothes / hair / face / mouth / teeth

· good English / address Castle Dracula / very dangerous

3. Here are some sentences from eight different letters in the story. Who wrote them, and to whom? Choose the right people from the list below. Then put the letters in the order in which they were written.

Jonathan to Mr Hawkin / Arthur to Mina

Budapest Hospital to Mina / Arthur to Dr Jack Seward

Jack to Professor Van Helsing / Jonathan to Mina

Jack and Van Helsing to Arthur / Van Helsing to Jack

1) ... and we are sorry to tell you that she is very weak. It won't be long now. Come as soon as you can.

2) ... The Count has asked me to stay here for another month. I hope that you will not need me in the office.

3) We have a young Englishman here, who has given us your name. He is still very ill and would like to see you, if you can make the journey from England...

4) ... Don't forget—you must watch her all night! Don't leave her for a minute, or she'll be in great danger.

5) ... You helped me so much when I was your student. Now I need your help for a dear friend. Can you come?

6) ... I have some very sad news. You have lost a dear friend, and I have lost the girl I loved. It happened like this...

7) ... You're my oldest friend, and also a doctor, so perhaps you can help her and find out why she is so ill.

8) My work in Transylvania is finished and I am coming home. I'm at Bistritz already, and will see you soon...

4. Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter ____.

1) Who are the four characters in the picture?

2) What has just happened?

3) What happens next?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: ______________________

5. Van Helsing has to tell Arthur that Lucy is a vampire. Put their conversation in the right order and write in the speakers' names. Van Helsing speaks first (number 9).

1) ____ 'This is worse. Lucy was killed by a vampire, and she has now become a vampire herself.'

2) ____ 'Because Jack and I have seen her empty coffin. Come with us tonight, and we can show you.'

3) ____ 'How horrible! But it can't be Lucy! It can't be!'

4) ____ 'What could be worse than my Lucy's death?'

5) ____ 'I'm afraid it is possible. There is a vampire—a beautiful lady—who is catching small children at night. She bites their necks and drinks their blood.'

6) ____ 'It is her, Arthur. She leaves her tomb at night.'

7) ____ 'I can't believe this. I don't want to believe it. But I'll come with you and see for myself.'

8) ____ 'What! Lucy—a vampire? That's not possible!'

9) ____ 'Arthur, I have something terrible to tell you.'

10) ____ 'How do you know she leaves her tomb?'

6. What do you think about vampires? Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with these ideas? Explain why.

1) Stories about vampires are fun to read.

2) Nobody believes in vampires today.

3) It is more frightening to see a film about Dracula than to read a book about him.

京权图字：01-2002-6589

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

亨利八世和他的六位妻子：英汉对照／（英）哈迪-古尔德（Hardy-Gould, J.）著；商海燕译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2003.10（2013.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-3684-7

Ⅰ．亨…　Ⅱ．①哈…　②商…　Ⅲ．英语—对照读物，小说—英、汉　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2003）第076643号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 易　璐

责任编辑：

封面设计： 李　萌

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2003年10月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-3684-7

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519





内容简介


英格兰国王亨利八世因为很多事情而出名，但他也因有六个妻子而闻名于世。他不是个好丈夫。人们说，当他挑选新妻子时，父亲们都会小心地带着女儿远离王宫。他们都不愿意让国王选中他们的女儿当下一任王后，因为他的几位王后都很短命，而且都很不幸。

为什么亨利国王会和两位妻子离婚，又杀死了另两个呢？他的王后们到底是什么样子呢？

他的第六位妻子凯瑟琳·帕尔在国王去世后依然健在。一天她回到了白厅的王宫，发现了一个装着旧信的盒子，这些信都是写给国王的——他的前五位妻子每人一封。她坐下来把信念给自己年轻的侍女玛格丽特听。第一封信来自西班牙国王的女儿，阿拉贡的凯瑟琳，她和亨利做了24年的夫妻。她孤独地郁郁而终，没有一个朋友……





HENRY ⅧAND HIS SIX WIVES


AND HIS SIX WIVES

King Henry the Eighth of England was famous for many things, but he was also famous because he had six wives. He was not a kind husband. People say that when he was looking for a new wife, careful fathers took their daughters away from the palace. They did not want the King to choose their daughter to be the next Queen, because some of his Queens had very short and unhappy lives.

Why did King Henry divorce two wives, and kill two others? What were his queens really like?

Catherine Parr, the sixth wife, lived on after the King's death. One day she goes back to the palace of Whitehall and finds a box of old letters written to the King—one from each of the first five wives. She sits down to read them to her young maid, Margaret. The first letter is from the daughter of the King of Spain, Katherine of Aragon, who was Henry's wife for twenty-four years. She died alone and sad and friendless...





1King Henry is dead


King Henry is dead

My name is Catherine Parr. A month ago I was the Queen of England, the wife of King Henry the Eighth. Henry died and we buried him last week in St George's Church, Windsor. Two days ago, on 16th February 1547, I went back to the palace of Whitehall, which was once my home. I wanted to take my letters and books and bring them back to my house.

Margaret, my new maid, came to the palace with me. She's very young and doesn't know a lot about the world. She has only just come up to London from her home in Somerset. Perhaps I was like her when I was twelve. I, too, was always asking questions and wanting answers immediately.

When we arrived at the palace, it was cold and dark. We walked into Henry's room. I sat down in one of Henry's large chairs in front of his wooden writing desk and looked at the pictures around the room. Next to me there was a big picture of Henry, when he was young. He was very handsome then, not like the fat old man he was later. I thought his blue eyes were watching me. I turned to Margaret and said:

'You see that picture of the King? That's what he was like when he was young—tall and strong and handsome. People say that he never got tired. He could go out riding all day, changing his horses nine or ten times, and then he could dance all night. He was clever, too; he could speak five languages. Will people remember him like that, or will they only remember him because he had six wives?'

'Did he really have so many wives?' said Margaret.

'Yes, of course. I thought that everyone knew that.'

Margaret looked away and said, 'We didn't get much news from London at home, and my family's house is a long way from the nearest village.'

'It doesn't matter,' I said, smiling. 'One day, I'll tell you the story of my husband Henry's life.'

On the desk in front of me there was a wooden box with a large gold H on the top. I opened it slowly and took out some old letters. Each letter was in different writing and some of them were old and yellow. One letter had a picture of a large bird on it. It was from Henry's second wife, Anne Boleyn.

'Margaret!' I said. 'I've found some letters from Henry's other wives. There's also a beautiful gold necklace and a small piece of hair.' I looked at another letter. 'Here's one old letter from his first wife, Katherine of Aragon. She was married to him for a very long time.'

'She only had one child, didn't she?' said Margaret.

'Yes, only Princess Mary is still alive. There were five other children, but they were all born too early and died.'

Again I looked at the letter with the picture of the bird on it. 'Have you heard of Anne Boleyn, Margaret?'

'Yes, my mother talked about her. She said she was a very bad woman.'

'Well, that's what some people say. Anne was the mother of Henry's second daughter, Princess Elizabeth. Look,' I said. 'This one is from Katherine Howard, Henry's fifth wife. Both Anne and Katherine were beheaded in that terrible prison, the Tower of London.'

'Why did the King send them to their deaths?' asked Margaret. She looked afraid.

'They had many enemies, who told the King that they had lovers. Perhaps the stories were true, I don't know. But the King believed them.'

I looked at another letter. 'This one is from Jane Seymour. She was the third wife and the mother of Henry's only living son. He is now our King, Edward the Sixth.'

'Was Jane Seymour beheaded too?' asked Margaret.

'No, poor Queen Jane died soon after Edward was born.'

I looked at the last, short letter. 'Look, a letter from Anne of Cleves, Henry's fourth wife.'

'Did she have any children?' asked Margaret.

'No,' I laughed. 'Henry thought that Anne was very ugly and he didn't want her to be the mother of his children.'

Margaret was silent. Then she said, 'King Henry sounds like a terrible husband.'

'He wasn't all bad, Margaret. There were good times, too. He was clever at so many things—horse-riding and tennis, writing and playing music. He wrote many beautiful songs, and he had a wonderful singing voice. But it's true that he wasn't very kind to his wives.'

Margaret looked at the box. 'So why did he keep these letters from them?' she asked.

'Oh, you ask so many questions, Margaret! I don't know. Perhaps each letter says something important.'

I looked up and saw that it was nearly dark. It was time to go home to Chelsea Manor. I put the letters back inside the box.

'Come, Margaret, we must go now.'

'But can't we read the letters?' she asked.

'We'll take them with us and read them tomorrow.'

come up to come to one place from another. 从一地来到另一地。

immediately adv. at once, without delay. 立刻，马上；当即，毫不耽搁。

handsome adj. (of man) goodlooking. （指男子）漂亮的，英俊的。

matter v. (used esp. in negative sentences and questions; in sentences containing what, who, where, if, etc., usu. with it as the subject) be important. （尤用于否定句和疑问句；句中含what, who, where, if 等词，通常以it作主语）关系重大，要紧。

different adj. not the same (as sb. or sth.). 不同的。

necklace n. ornament of pearls, beads, etc. worn round the neck. 项链。

hear of be told about or have knowledge of sb./ sth. 听到或知道某人/某事物的情况。

behead v. cut off the head of (sb.), esp. as a punishment. 砍（某人）的头（尤指刑罚）。

terrible adj. causing great fear or distress. 可怕的。

the Tower of London 伦敦塔，伦敦著名古迹，位于塔桥附近，南临泰晤士河，建于11世纪末。这座古老的宫殿曾做过王宫、堡垒、档案馆和监狱。

sound v. give a specific impression when heard. 听起来，似乎。

wonderful adj. very good or admirable. 极好的。

it is time to (do sth.) 是……的时候了，该做……了。





1 ．亨利国王去世


我叫凯瑟琳·帕尔。一个月前我还是英格兰的王后，国王亨利八世的妻子。亨利去世了，我们上周在温莎的圣乔治教堂埋葬了他。两天前，也就是1547年2月l6日，我回到了白厅的王宫，这儿曾经是我的家。我想拿走我的信件和书籍，把它们带回我的家。

我的新侍女玛格丽特和我一起来到王宫。她非常年轻，不谙世事。她刚从她的家乡萨默塞特来到伦敦。我12岁时可能也和她一样，总爱问问题并总想马上知道答案。

到达王宫时，那里又冷又暗。我们走进了亨利的房间。我在他那木制写字台前的一把大椅子上坐了下来，环视着屋里的画。我旁边是一张亨利年轻时的大幅画像。那时他非常英俊，不像后来那样又老又胖。我觉得，他的蓝眼睛正注视着我。我转向玛格丽特说：

“你看到国王的那幅画像了吧？那是他年轻时的样子——高大，强壮，而且英俊。人们说他永远不会疲倦。他能整天在外骑马，换九到十次马，然后还能整夜跳舞。他也非常聪明，会说五种语言。但人们会因为他是这样一个人而记住他，还是仅仅因为他有过六个妻子而记住他呢？”

“他真有那么多妻子吗？”玛格丽特说。

“是的，当然。我想大家都知道。”

玛格丽特望着远处说道：“我们在家时对伦敦的消息知道得并不多，我家离最近的村子也有很长一段路。”

“不要紧，”我笑着说，“有一天我会把我丈夫亨利一生的故事全告诉你的。”

我面前的桌子上有一个木盒子，上面有一个巨大的金字“H”。我慢慢地打开它，取出了几封旧信。每封信的字迹都不相同，有些已经旧得发黄了。其中一封信上画着一只大鸟，那是亨利的第二任妻子安妮·博伦写来的。

“玛格丽特！”我说，“我发现了亨利其他妻子们写的一些信件，还有一条美丽的金项链和一绺头发。”我看了看另外一封信，“这儿有他的第一任妻子阿拉贡的凯瑟琳写的一封信。他们的婚姻维持了很长一段时间。”

“她只有一个孩子，是吧？”玛格丽特说道。

“是的，只有玛丽公主还活着。她还生过五个孩子，但都是早产，全都夭折了。”

我又看了看那封画着鸟的信。“你听说过安妮·博伦吗，玛格丽特？”

“是的，我妈妈说起过她，说她是个很坏的女人。”

“啊，有些人是那么说的。安妮是亨利的第二个女儿伊丽莎白公主的母亲。看，”我说，“这一封信是凯瑟琳·霍华德，也就是亨利的第五任妻子写的。安妮和凯瑟琳都是在伦敦塔那个可怕的监狱里被砍头的。”

“国王为什么要处死她们呢？”玛格丽特问道。她看起来很害怕。

“她们有很多敌人，这些人跟国王说她们有情人。那些故事也许是真的，我不知道。但是国王相信他们的话。”

我看了看另一封信。“这封是简·西摩写的。她是亨利的第三任妻子，也是亨利唯一尚在人世的儿子的母亲。他现在是我们的国王，爱德华六世。”

“简·西摩也是被砍头的吗？”玛格丽特问。

“不，可怜的王后简在爱德华出生后不久就去世了。”

我看到最后一封短信。“看，这封信是克利夫斯的安妮写来的，她是亨利的第四任妻子。”

“她有孩子吗？”玛格丽特问道。

“没有，”我大笑，“亨利认为安妮太丑了，不想让她做他孩子的母亲。”

玛格丽特沉默了。然后她说：“亨利国王听起来像是个很可怕的丈夫。”

“他并非一无是处，玛格丽特。他也有好的时候。他擅长的东西很多——比如骑马、打网球、写作以及演奏音乐。他写过很多优美的歌曲，还有一副动人的歌喉。不过他的确对妻子们不太好。”

玛格丽特看着盒子。“那他为什么还保留着她们的信呢？”她问。

“哦，你问的问题太多了，玛格丽特！我不知道。也许每封信都写了些重要的事情吧。”

我抬头看了看，天差不多黑了。我的家在切尔西庄园，现在该回去了。我把信放回盒子里。

“来，玛格丽特，我们现在得走了。”

“但是我们不能读这些信吗？”她问。

“我们要把它们带回去，明天再读。”





2Katherine of Aragon


Katherine of Aragon

We got up early the next morning and went to my favourite room. It has a wonderful view of the large gardens and the River Thames at the bottom.

'Did you sleep well, Margaret?' I asked.

'No. I dreamed that King Henry came back to life and sent me to the Tower of London.'

'Why did he do that?'

'Because in my dream I read the letters and he was angry with me. Perhaps it will be bad luck if we read them,' said Margaret, worried.

'Don't worry,' I said. 'It was only a dream. He can't do anything now. He's dead.'

I went over to the wooden box and opened it. 'We'll read the letter from Katherine of Aragon first,' I said.

'She was Spanish, wasn't she?' said Margaret.

'Yes, she first came over to England to marry Henry's brother Arthur, but he died. She then married Henry and was his wife and queen for twenty-four years.'

'What a long time! What happened to her? Did she go to the Tower of London too?'

'No, Henry divorced Katherine because he wanted a son, and she only gave him a daughter, Princess Mary. Years before, Katherine did have a son—Henry, Prince of Wales, but he died when he was only seven weeks old. The King wanted a son very much. He was in love with Anne Boleyn, but he also wanted a new wife—a younger woman to give him sons.'

'Poor Katherine! Divorced after twenty-four years for a younger woman!' Margaret looked at the letter in my hand. 'Can we read the letter now, my lady?'

'Yes, let's sit down by the window and read it together.'

'But I can't read,' said Margaret, looking at the floor.

'That's all right, I'll read it for you.'

We sat down and I began to read it slowly...

Windsor

28th July 1531

Dear Henry

When you left Windsor last week, you didn't say goodbye. I feel lonely and unhappy without you. When will I see you again? Please come back soon.

You know that I am your true wife. We have been married for more than twenty years in the eyes of God. I have given you a daughter, Princess Mary. God took from us our other children. I wanted so much to give you a son, but God's plan for us was different, and we cannot change that.

I pray for you every day and ask for you to come back to me. I have never been untrue to you, Henry, and have always been a good wife, and a good mother to our daughter.

I am still your Queen. There is only one Queen of England, and that is me. I know that you are with Anne Boleyn, but you will never be happy with her. I am the daughter of a King, and she is not. You must not divorce me. The Pope and the Catholic Church will never agree to this. I am sending you a necklace with a gold cross. Henry, when you look at it, remember me and remember the Catholic Church.

　Your Queen

　Katherine of Aragon

'So what happened to Katherine?' asked Margaret. 'Did she ever see the King again?'

'No, never. He divorced her. She lived a lonely life with only a few friends, and died a broken and unhappy woman about ten years ago.'

'What about the Catholic Church? Did the Pope agree to the divorce?'

'No, he didn't. So Henry broke with the Pope and the Catholic Church, and that's how the Church of England began. The King became Head of the Church, and the Pope and the Catholics were very angry. It made a lot of trouble both in England and Europe.'

'And all because of Anne Boleyn?' said Margaret.

'Not only that. You see, it was very important for the King to have a son, to be King after him. There has only ever been one Queen in England, and that was a terrible time, with a lot of fighting and killing. Henry didn't want that to happen again after his death. So he knew that he must have a son, not just daughters. And that's really why he divorced Katherine and married again.'

'And was he sad when Katherine died?'

'Sad? Oh no! He dressed in yellow and danced all night with his new Queen.'

Margaret looked inside the box and found the gold necklace. She held it to her neck. 'Poor Katherine,' she said softly. 'King Henry was a terrible husband to her.'

favourite adj. best liked. 最喜欢的。

view n. state of seeing or being seen from a particular place; field of vision. 视野。

luck n. chance, esp. thought of as force that brings good or bad fortune. 运气，造化。

divorce v. legally end one's marriage to (sb.). 与（某人）离婚。

that's all right it doesn't matter. 没关系。

pray for offer thanks, make requests. 祈祷，祷告。

untrue (to sb.) adj. not loyal. 不忠实的。

agree (to sth.) say 'yes'; consent (to sth.). 同意，答应。

break with (sb.) end a relationship with (sb.). 与（某人）绝交。

dress in (sth.) wearing sth. 穿某物。





2 ．阿拉贡的凯瑟琳


第二天早晨，我们起得很早，来到我最喜欢的房间。这间房子外面的风景很美，有几座很大的花园，远处是泰晤士河。

“你睡得好吗，玛格丽特？”我问道。

“不好。我梦到亨利国王复活了，把我送进了伦敦塔。”

“他为什么会那样做呢？”

“因为我梦到我看了那些信，他很生气。可能我们读了那些信会倒霉的。”玛格丽特忧心忡忡地说。

“别担心”，我说，“那只是个梦。他现在什么也做不了，他已经死了。”

我走到木盒子前，把它打开。“我们还是从阿拉贡的凯瑟琳的信读起吧。”我说。

“她是个西班牙人，对吧？”玛格丽特问。

“是的，她刚来英格兰时嫁的是亨利的哥哥亚瑟，但是他死了。她随后又嫁给了亨利，给他做了24年的妻子和王后。”

“时间真长啊！她后来怎么样了？她也被关进伦敦塔了吗？”

“没有，亨利和凯瑟琳离婚了，因为他想要个儿子，而她只给他生了个女儿，就是玛丽公主。多年前，凯瑟琳的确 生了一个儿子——就是亨利，威尔士王子，但他生下来刚七个星期就夭折了。国王非常想要个儿子。他爱上了安妮·博伦，但他也想要个新妻子——一个更年轻的女人给他生儿子。”

“可怜的凯瑟琳！因为一个比她年轻的女人，居然在结婚24年后被抛弃！”玛格丽特看着我手中的信，“我们现在可以读这封信吗，夫人？”

“可以，我们坐到窗边一起读吧。”

“但是我不识字。”玛格丽特看着地板说。

“好吧，我来给你读。”

我们坐了下来，我开始慢慢读信……

温莎宫

1531年7月28日

亲爱的亨利：

你上周离开温莎时，没有向我道别。没有你，我感到既孤独又伤心。我何时才能再见到你呢？请快回来吧。

你知道我是你忠实的妻子。我们结婚已经20多年了，有上帝做见证。我为你生了一个女儿，玛丽公主。上帝带走了我们其他的孩子。我多么想再给你生个儿子啊，但是上帝给我们的安排是不同的，而且我们无法改变。

我每天为你祈祷，盼望你能回到我的身边。我从未背叛过你，亨利。我一直是个好妻子，我们女儿的好母亲。

我仍然是你的王后。英格兰只有一个王后，那就是我。我知道你和安妮·博伦在一起，但是你和她在一起是绝不会幸福的。我是一位国王的女儿，而她不是。你不能和我离婚，教皇和天主教会永远都不会同意这件事的。我送给你这条带有金十字架的项链。亨利，当你看着它时，就请记住我，记住天主教会。

你的王后

阿拉贡的凯瑟琳

“那么凯瑟琳怎么样了？”玛格丽特问，“她后来又见到过国王吗？”

“没有，再也没有。他和她离婚了。她一直孤独地生活着，身边仅有几个朋友。大约十年前，她身心俱焚，郁郁而终。”

“那么天主教会呢？教皇同意他们离婚吗？”

“不，他不同意。所以亨利与教皇和天主教会决裂了，英格兰国教就是这样创建的。国王成了教会的领袖，教皇和天主教会非常愤怒。这在英格兰乃至整个欧洲都引起了轩然大波。”

“这都是因为安妮·博伦吗？”玛格丽特问。

“不仅仅因为她。你知道，对于国王来说，有个儿子非常重要，儿子可以继承他的王位。在英格兰只有过一位女王，那是个可怕的年代，到处是争斗和杀戮。亨利不想在他死后再发生这样的事情。所以，他知道他一定得有个儿子，而不能只有女儿。那才是他和凯瑟琳离婚并再娶的真正原因。”

“凯瑟琳去世的时候他伤心吗？”

“伤心？哦不！他穿着黄色的衣服和新王后整夜跳舞。”

玛格丽特朝盒子里看了看，发现了那条金项链。她拿着项链在自己的脖子上比试着。“可怜的凯瑟琳，”她轻声说，“亨利国王对她来说真是个可怕的丈夫。”





3Anne Boleyn


Anne Boleyn

Margaret carefully put the necklace back into the box, then looked at me.

'So then the King married Anne Boleyn,' she said. 'Was Anne very special? Was she really very beautiful?'

'Some people say that she was, and others say that she wasn't. But she had beautiful long black hair, and the most wonderful black eyes. When men looked into her eyes, they fell in love with her.'

'Tell me more about her,' said Margaret.

'Well, Henry was in love with her for about seven years before they married.'

'Seven years!'

'Yes, it took a long time to divorce Katherine, and Anne wanted to marry the King and be his Queen. She didn't want to be just his mistress, like the other girls.'

'Did the King have a lot of mistresses?' asked Margaret. Her eyes were round with interest.

'Oh yes,' I said, smiling. 'Kings can do what they like, you know. But people say that Anne was very clever. She said no to the King, again and again, and so he had to marry her to get what he wanted.'

'And how long were they married?'

'Less than three and a half years.'

'Is that all?' said Margaret. 'King Henry broke with the Pope to marry Anne, and they were only married for three and a half years!'

'Yes, Henry soon became tired of her. He wanted a son, but she only gave him a daughter, Princess Elizabeth. She nearly had another baby, but she had a miscarriage after only a few months. They could see that it was a boy. Henry was very, very angry, and three months later Anne was in the Tower of London. Henry was already interested in Jane Seymour, you see.'

'So poor Anne went to the Tower because she didn't give the King a son?'

'Well, there were other things. Anne was a strong and sometimes difficult woman. She talked a lot. She liked to tell Henry what to do. In the end Henry became bored of this. Remember, he was the King of England.'

'Did she really have lovers?'

'Well, some people say—'

Just then there was a noise outside. I looked out of the window and saw a man on a horse. He had grey hair and was wearing fine clothes. It was my Uncle William. A minute later he came into the room.

'Hello,' I said, kissing him. 'I'm so pleased to see you.'

'Dear Catherine,' he said. 'It's wonderful to see you, too. And who is this?' he said, turning to Margaret.

'I'm Margaret, my lady's new maid.'

'I'm very pleased to meet you,' he said, smiling. 'So,' he went on, 'what's the news?'

'Oh, we were just talking about Anne Boleyn,' I said.

'That black-eyed witch!' said Uncle William.

'Was she really a witch?' asked Margaret.

'Well, she was a strange woman,' said Uncle William. 'She had six fingers on one hand. I saw them myself. Witches always have six fingers. Anne Boleyn was a wild and dangerous woman—but men liked her.'

'So she did have lovers, then?' said Margaret.

'Of course she did!' said Uncle William. 'There were five of them—all wild young men. They were all beheaded before the witch, and a good thing too!'

'Oh, Uncle,' I said, 'how can we be sure that they were all her lovers? One of them was her brother!'

'Well, perhaps he wasn't her lover,' said Uncle William. 'But I remember all those wild parties in the Queen's rooms. There was dancing and laughing all night sometimes. She was a bad woman, I'm sure of it.'

'I think that Henry believed the stories about Anne because he wanted another wife,' I said. 'A wife to give him a son.'

Little Margaret was listening to us with great interest. 'So nobody was sorry when Anne died?' she said.

'No, many people were pleased,' said Uncle William. 'She had a lot of enemies.' then he looked at both of us. 'But why are you talking about Anne Boleyn? That's very old news.'

'I found this old box of Henry's at Whitehall Palace,' I said. 'Inside there were letters from each of Henry's wives, and Margaret wanted to know all about them.'

'Where's the one from Anne Boleyn?' said Uncle William. He opened the box on the table. 'I want to read what she wrote to her dear husband. Ah, here it is. 18th May 1536—that's the day before she was beheaded.'

He began to read the letter aloud...

Tower of London

18th May 1536

Dear Henry

This is my last letter to you. Tomorrow I am going to die. When you open this letter and read it, I will be dead and buried.

During the last few weeks my life has been very hard. I have been very afraid and very lonely. I have walked around my room, thinking of you. I wanted you to take me away from this terrible prison. But now I know that I am going to die, I feel calm.

They tell me that you have spoken angry words about me. You say I have had a hundred lovers, not just the five poor men who have died because of me.

But I did not have lovers, Henry. Not one, and you know it. I was a true wife to you, but you listened to my enemies, and that is why I am here.

I ask one last thing. Please be kind to our daughter Elizabeth. Do not be angry with her , because of me . She is so very young, not yet three years old. I am sending a gold necklace to give to her. It will help her to remember me.

I have only a little neck, so it will not be difficult for the French sword to cut through it tomorrow.

Tonight I will pray for God to forgive you.

　Your wife

　Anne Boleyn

'And was Anne beheaded the next day?' asked Margaret.

'Yes,' I said. 'With a sword. That's how they do it in France.'

'How terrible!' said Margaret, holding her neck.

'Well, I know that Henry did the right thing,' said Uncle William. 'Anne Boleyn was no good. She wasn't a real Queen. Not like Katherine of Aragon.' He stood up. 'I must go,' he said. 'This is all very interesting, but I came here to talk to your brother. I'll go and find him. Goodbye for now, ladies.' He smiled and left the room.

'Where's the necklace?' asked Margaret.

'I can't find it,' I said, looking in the box. 'Perhaps Henry gave it to Princess Elizabeth. Perhaps she looks at it sometimes and thinks of her mother.'

special adj. of a particular or certain type; not common, usual or general. 特殊的，特别的。

mistress n. woman having an illicit but regular sexual relationship, esp. with a married man. 情妇。

again and again repeatedly. 一再地，再三地。

become tired of be impatient or bored with sb. 对某人感到厌倦。

miscarriage n. spontaneous, premature loss of a foetus from the womb. 流产，小产。

become bored of feel tired and uninterested (by being dull and tedious). （因单调或乏味而）对……感到厌烦。

turn to change position or direction so as to face or start moving in the specified direction. 转向。

witch n. woman thought to have evil magic power (often portrayed in fairy stories wearing a black cloak and pointed hat and flying on a broomstick). 女巫（在童话里常被描述成身着黑色的斗篷和尖帽乘扫帚飞行者）。

wild adj. out of control; undisciplined. 不守规矩的。

be sure of be certain of. 对……确定。

interest n. state of wanting to learn or know (about sb. / sth.). 兴趣。

bury v. place (a dead body) in a grave or in the sea. 埋葬。

lonely adj. sad because one lacks friends or companions. 孤寂的，寂寞的。

enemy n. person who strongly dislikes or wants to injure or attack sb. / sth. 仇人，敌人，仇敌。

sword n. weapon with a long thin metal blade and a protected handle. 剑，刀。

forgive v. stop being angry or bitter towards sb. or about sth.; stop blaming or wanting to punish sb. 原谅，宽恕。





3 ．安妮·博伦


玛格丽特小心翼翼地把项链放回到盒子里，然后看着我。

“那么后来国王就娶了安妮·博伦喽，”她说，“安妮很特别吗？她真的非常漂亮吗？”

“有些人说她很美，也有人不这么认为。但她有一头乌黑漂亮的长发，一双最动人的黑眼睛。男人凝视她的眼睛时，就会爱上她。”

“多说点儿关于她的事情吧。”玛格丽特说。

“嗯，在他们结婚之前，亨利和她相爱已经有七年了。”

“七年！”

“是的，亨利和凯瑟琳离婚花了好长时间，而且安妮想嫁给国王成为王后。她不想像别的女子一样仅仅做他的情妇。”

“国王有很多情妇吗？”玛格丽特问道。她瞪大的眼睛里充满了好奇。

“哦，是的，”我微笑着说，“国王可以随心所欲地做他们想做的事情，你知道。但据说安妮非常聪明，她一再地拒绝国王，所以他要想得到她就不得不和她结婚。”

“他们结婚多长时间？”

“不到三年半。”

“就那么长？”玛格丽特叫道，“亨利国王为娶安妮而和教皇决裂，可他们的婚姻只维持了三年半！”

“是的，亨利很快就厌倦了她。他想要个儿子，而她只给他生了个女儿，就是伊丽莎白公主。她差点就有了另一个孩子，但怀孕仅仅几个月就流产了。可以看出，那是个男孩儿。亨利非常非常生气，三个月后，安妮就被送进了伦敦塔。那时亨利已经迷上了简·西摩，你知道。”

“那么可怜的安妮就因为没有给国王生儿子而被关进了塔里吗？”

“嗯，还有别的事儿。安妮是一个个性强，有时又很执拗的女人。她爱多嘴，爱对亨利指手画脚。最后，亨利对此烦透了。别忘了，他可是英格兰国王。”

“她真的有情人吗？”

“嗯，有人说——”

就在这时，外面传来一阵响声。我朝窗外望去，只见一个男人骑在马上。他头发灰白，衣着考究。那是我的叔叔威廉。不一会儿他就走了进来。

“你好，”我说着，吻了吻他，“见到你非常高兴。”

“亲爱的凯瑟琳，”他说，“我也很高兴见到你。这是谁？”他转向玛格丽特问道。

“我是玛格丽特，夫人的新侍女。”

“很高兴见到你，”他笑着说，“那么，”他继续问道，“有什么新闻吗？”

“哦，我们正在谈论安妮·博伦。”我说。

“那是个黑眼睛的女巫！”威廉叔叔说。

“她真是个女巫吗？”玛格丽特问。

“嗯，她是个非常怪异的女人，”威廉叔叔说，“她的一只手上长着六根手指，我亲眼见到的。女巫都有六根手指。安妮·博伦是个放荡而又危险的女人——但男人们喜欢她。”

“那么说，她真的有情人啦？”玛格丽特问。

“当然有啦！”威廉叔叔说，“有五个呢——都是放荡不羁的年轻人。他们都先于这个女巫被处决了，那也是件大快人心的事！”

“哦，叔叔，”我说，“我们怎么能确定他们都是她的情人呢？其中一个是她哥哥呀！”

“嗯，可能他 不是她的情人，”威廉叔叔说，“但我记得他们在王后房间里举行的所有那些疯狂的聚会。有时他们彻夜狂欢，又跳又笑。她是个坏女人，这一点我很确定。”

“我认为亨利相信关于安妮的这些事，是因为他想另外娶个妻子，”我说，“一个可以给他生个儿子的妻子。”

小玛格丽特怀着极大的兴趣听着我们的对话。“那么安妮死时，没有人伤心了？”她说。

“没有，很多人都很高兴呢，”威廉叔叔说，“她有很多仇敌。”然后他看着我们两个说，“但是你们为什么谈起了安妮·博伦呢？那已是很久以前的事了。”

“我在白厅发现了亨利的这个旧盒子，”我说，“里面有亨利每个妻子的来信，而且玛格丽特想了解她们的一切。”

“哪一封是安妮·博伦写的？”威廉叔叔问。他打开桌上的盒子，“我想读一下她给她亲爱的丈夫写的东西。啊，在这儿呢。1536年5月18日——这是她被处决的前一天！”

他开始大声地读这封信……

伦敦塔

1536年5月18日

亲爱的亨利：

这是我写给你的最后一封信。明天，我就要死了。当你打开这封信读它的时候，我已死去，并被埋葬了。

在过去的几周里，我的生活非常艰难。我很害怕，也十分孤独。我在屋里来回走动时，想着你。我希望你会带我离开这个可怕的监狱。但现在我知道自己要死了，反而觉得平静了。

他们告诉我，你曾说了我很多气话，说我有过上百个情人，而不仅仅是那五个因我而死的可怜人。

但是亨利，我没有情人，一个也没有，这你是知道的。我是你忠实的妻子，但你却听信我仇敌的话，把我送到这里。

我求你最后一件事。请善待我们的女儿伊丽莎白，不要因我 而迁怒于她 。她太小了，还不到三岁。我把这条金项链送给她，这将帮她记住我。

我的脖颈很细，所以，明天用锋利的法国刀砍断它不会是什么难事。

今晚，我将祈求上帝宽恕你。

你的妻子

安妮·博伦

“安妮第二天就被砍头了吗？”玛格丽特问。

“是的，”我说，“用一把刀砍的。在法国都是这么做的。”

“多么可怕呀！”玛格丽特叫着，握住了自己的脖子。

“嗯，我认为亨利做得对，”威廉叔叔说，“安妮·博伦一无是处，她不是个真正的王后，不像阿拉贡的凯瑟琳。”他站起来，“我得走了，”他说，“这事儿非常有趣，但我来这儿是要和你哥哥谈话的。我要去找他了。女士们，再见。”他笑着离开了屋子。

“那条项链在哪儿？”玛格丽特问。

“我找不到，”我边说边在盒子里找着，“也许亨利把它给伊丽莎白公主了，这样她偶尔看见它时，或许会想起自己的母亲。”





4Jane Seymour


Jane Seymour

'People say that Princess Elizabeth is very clever,' said Margaret. 'Is that true, my lady?'

'Yes, it is. She's only thirteen years old, but she can read and write in four languages already.'

Margaret's face was sad. 'I only know one language,' she said. 'And I can't read or write it.'

'But you have a mother and father who are alive,' I said quickly. 'You don't have enemies who watch you all the time, or who want to send you far away to marry a stranger—perhaps an old man who drinks too much, and keeps a mistress!'

'Will that happen to Princess Elizabeth?' margaret asked, her eyes round.

'Perhaps. Who knows? A princess doesn't always have an easy life, you know.' I laughed. 'But Elizabeth is clever. I think she'll get what she wants in life. Now, let's go outside, while the sun is shining. We'll take the next letter with us.'

We walked down through the garden to the river. There we sat on a seat and watched the boats.

'So Jane Seymour was the third wife,' said Margaret. 'When did the King marry her?'

'Just ten days after Anne's death.'

'That was very quick!'

'Yes, Henry always knew what he wanted. And he usually wanted things immediately.'

'And was Jane the same as Anne Boleyn?'

'No, Jane was very different. She was quiet and careful. Before she married the King, she was never alone with him. Her brother Edward was always with her when the King came to visit. And Henry was pleased to see that. He didn't want another wild and dangerous wife like Anne.'

'How do you know so much about the King and his other wives?' asked Margaret.

'I have lived for many years in palaces, Margaret,' I said, smiling. 'And palaces are full of people, coming and going, talking in corners, telling secrets. If you listen, it's not difficult to learn things.'

'So was Jane a nicer person than Anne?'

'I think she was. She was very kind to Henry's daughters, Princess Mary and Princess Elizabeth. She was like a mother to both of them. Jane was clever too, and she quickly learnt to listen to Henry. She didn't try to tell him what to do. And with her brown hair and white face, she also looked very different to Anne Boleyn.'

'And what about the King at this time? Was he still handsome?'

'Oh no, he was beginning to get fat and his face was just like a big potato! Not like the picture in Whitehall Palace.'

'But was he happy?' asked Margaret.

'Yes, I think he really loved Jane. And of course, she also gave him a baby boy, who is now our King Edward.'

'A son at last for the King! But what happened to Jane? Did he get tired of her too, or was she the one who died?'

'Yes, she died soon after Edward was born.'

'How sad! She gave the King a son and then she died.'

'Let's read the letter now.' I opened it and a piece of brown hair fell out. I showed it to Margaret.

'What soft hair,' she said, touching it. 'Is it Jane's?'

'Yes, I think so.' I began to read...

Hampton Court Palace

22nd October 1537

Dear Henry

The doctors and my women tell me that I shall feel better tomorrow, but I can see in their faces that it is not true. I cannot sleep or eat, and a fire burns in my body day and night. I know that I shall soon be dead.

But I have given you a son, Henry, and I can die happy, knowing that Edward will be King after you. I will never see the day when he becomes King, but I pray that God will give him a long and happy life.

Please look after dear Edward and tell him all about me. Here is a piece of my hair—a small present from a dying mother to her baby son.

I am too ill to write more and must say goodbye.

　Your loving wife and queen

　Jane

I put the letter away, and looked at Margaret. 'She had a very difficult time when the baby was born, you see. It took three days and two nights before the baby arrived. Poor Jane was very tired and ill. She died twelve days later, very soon after this letter.'

'How terrible,' said Margaret. She touched the piece of Jane's hair again. 'And was the King sad?'

'Oh yes. He was very unhappy. He shut himself away in the palace for weeks. All England was sad, and every church in the country said prayers for poor Queen Jane. She was buried at Windsor, and Henry is now buried next to her.'

Just then Uncle William came up behind us.

'Ah, Uncle,' I said. 'Let's go in and have some lunch.'

stranger n. person that one does not know. 陌生人。

shine v. give out or reflect light; be bright. 发光，照耀。

alone adj. without any companions. 独自的，孤单的。

be pleased feeling or showing satisfaction or pleasure. 满意的，高兴的。

potato n. plant grown for its rounded starchy tubers which are eaten cooked as a vegetable. 马铃薯，土豆。

brown adj. having the colour of toasted bread, or coffee mixed with milk. 棕色的。

soft adj. not hard or firm to the touch. 软的，柔软的。

touch v. be or come together with (sth. else) so that there is no space between. 接触。

look after make sure that sb. is safe and well. 照顾，照料。

present n. thing given or received as a gift. 礼物。

too...to 太……而不能。

put away put sth. in a box, drawer, etc. because one has finished using it. （使用完毕）把某物收起或放入箱子、抽屉等中。

prayer n. solemn request to God or to an object of worship. 祈祷，祷告。

come up appear above the soil, arise. 长出地面；出现。





4 ．简·西摩


“据说伊丽莎白公主非常聪明，”玛格丽特说，“是真的吗，夫人？”

“是的，是真的，她只有13岁，但已经会用四种语言读书写字了。”

玛格丽特一脸沮丧。“我只懂一种 语言，”她说，“而且既 不会读也 不会写。”

“但你的父母都还健在，”我急忙说，“你没有敌人时刻监视你，或者想把你远嫁给他乡的陌生人——或许会把你嫁给酗酒养情妇的老头儿！”

“伊丽莎白公主会那样吗？”玛格丽特瞪大了眼睛问道。

“可能吧。谁知道呢？一个公主并不总是能过上安逸的生活，你知道，”我笑道，“但伊丽莎白很聪明，我想她会从生活中得到她想要的东西的。现在趁着阳光明媚，咱们出去吧。带上下一封信。”

我们穿过花园来到河边，坐在一张凳子上，注视着过往的船只。

“那么简·西摩是第三任妻子，”玛格丽特说，“国王什么时候和她结婚的？”

“安妮去世后仅十天。”

“真够快的！”

“是的，亨利总是知道自己想要什么，而且他总是要立刻就得到。”

“简和安妮·博伦一样吗？”

“不，简与她很不一样。她性格文静，处世小心。嫁给国王之前，她从没和他单独在一起待过。国王来访时，她的弟弟爱德华总是跟随在她左右。亨利看到这些很高兴，他不想再娶一个像安妮那样既放荡又危险的妻子了。”

“你怎么会对国王和他那些妻子的事知道得这么多？”玛格丽特问道。

“我在王宫里生活了很多年，玛格丽特，”我笑着说，“王宫里到处都是人，来来往往，秘密交谈，窃窃私语。如果你留心听，了解这些并非难事。”

“那么简这个人比安妮好些吧？”

“我想是的。她对亨利的女儿玛丽公主和伊丽莎白公主都很好，就像她们两个的母亲。简也非常聪明，她很快就学会了听从亨利。她从不对亨利指手画脚，她棕色的头发，白皙的面庞，都使她看起来和安妮·博伦截然不同。”

“国王这时候是什么样子？他依然很英俊吗？”

“噢，不，他已开始发福，脸就像个大土豆！可不像白厅里的画像那样英俊。”

“但他高兴吗？”玛格丽特问。

“是的，我想他真的爱上了简。当然，她也给他生了个男孩，就是我们现在的爱德华国王。”

“国王终于有儿子了！但是简怎么样了？国王也厌倦她了，要不就是她死了？”

“是的，她在爱德华出生后不久就去世了。”

“多么可怜！她给国王生了个儿子，然后自己却死了。”

“咱们现在读信吧。”我打开信，一绺棕色的头发掉了出来。我把它递给玛格丽特。

“好柔软的头发，”她抚摸着头发说，“是简的吗？”

“是的，我想是的。”我开始读信……

汉普顿宫

1537年10月22日

亲爱的亨利：

医生和我的侍女告诉我，我明天会感觉好些的，但从他们的脸上可以看出，这不是真的。我既睡不着也吃不下，有团火日夜在我体内燃烧。我知道，我将不久于人世了。

但我已给你生了个儿子，亨利，我可以含笑而去了，我知道爱德华会继承你的王位。我永远也看不到他成为国王的那一天了，但我将向上帝祈祷让他长命百岁，一生幸福。

请照看好亲爱的爱德华，告诉他关于我的一切。这是我的一绺头发——算是一位弥留之际的母亲留给她儿子的小小礼物吧。

我病情太重，再也写不下去了，不得不向你说再见了。

爱你的妻子和王后

简

我把信收好，看着玛格丽特。“婴儿出生时，她很痛苦，你知道。整整折腾了三天两夜，孩子才降生。可怜的简被折磨得疲惫不堪，终于病倒了。她在写完这封信12天后就去世了。”

“多可怕呀，”玛格丽特说。她又抚摸着简的那绺头发，“国王很伤心吗？”

“哦，是的。他非常难过。他把自己关在王宫里，好几个星期都没出来。整个英格兰都沉浸在悲痛之中，国内的每个教堂都在为可怜的王后简祈祷。她被葬在温莎宫，亨利现在就葬在她的旁边。”

这时，威廉叔叔从我们身后走过来。

“啊，叔叔，”我说，“我们一起进去用午餐吧。”





5Anne of Cleves


Anne of Cleves

After lunch we sat and talked for a while. Uncle William was very interested in the letters.

'So which letter are you going to read next?' he asked.

'The one from Anne of Cleves,' I replied.

'Oh yes, Henry's ugly wife. When I first saw her, I thought she looked just like a horse! And the King thought that too!'

'A horse?' said Margaret. 'So how did she become the King's wife?'

'It's a long story. Do you want to hear it?'

'Yes, please,' said Margaret, smiling.

'Well, after poor Queen Jane died, Henry was very sad and lonely. He wanted a new wife, and he wanted a second son. Children can die at any time, and Edward wasn't strong. So everybody looked for a beautiful young woman to be the new Queen. Then someone told Henry about Anne of Cleves, a German Princess. They said that she was beautiful, young, and clever. And at that time the King wanted to please the Germans, because he was angry with the French. That all changed later, of course.

'Henry couldn't go and see Anne for himself, so he sent his artist Holbein to paint a picture of her. Holbein painted a fine picture of Anne and sent it back to Henry. Henry immediately fell in love with the beautiful woman in the picture and decided to marry her. So Anne sailed to England, and on her way to London she stopped for the night at a small town called Rochester. Henry couldn't wait for Anne to arrive in London so he travelled secretly to Rochester to meet her. She knew nothing about this.

'When Henry arrived at her house, he wasn't wearing his fine clothes and he didn't look like a king. He knocked on the door and went into her room. Oh dear! Poor Henry was very surprised. This wasn't the beautiful woman in the picture. She had a sad face and a long nose, and she wasn't very interested in this strange man. He didn't tell her his name, and she didn't understand that this was her new husband. What a terrible mistake!

'Poor Henry went away to put on his fine clothes, and came back looking like a real king. Anne now saw that this strange man was her new husband. Henry kissed Anne and said his name. Poor Anne smiled at him, but she couldn't speak any English so she stayed silent. After a few minutes Henry left. He was really unhappy. His new wife wasn't beautiful, and she couldn't say a word to him!'

'Oh dear,' said Margaret. She was enjoying this story very much. 'What happened next?'

'Well, Henry decided that he really didn't want to marry Anne. Where was the beautiful young woman in the picture? He wanted her ! But he couldn't change things. He had to marry ugly Anne.'

'And did the King learn to love her?' asked Margaret.

'No, he didn't. He wanted to divorce her.'

'And did he?'

'Yes, after six months.'

'How did he do that?'

'Well, he learned that in her country Anne was engaged at one time to marry another man.'

'And so he divorced her?'

'Yes, poor Anne was only Queen for six months.'

'And they didn't have any children, did they?'

'No, Henry didn't sleep with Anne.'

'But what happened to her? Is she still alive?'

'Oh yes. But let's read her letter and see what she says.'

'Perhaps it's a love letter,' said Margaret.

'If it is, I'm sure that she never got a reply!' said Uncle William, laughing. He opened the letter and began to read.

Palace of Richmond

20th July 1540

Dear Henry

You are a very good brother to me! Thank you for giving me five hundred pounds a year and the Palace of Richmond. I spend hours walking round the gardens here—the trees and flowers are wonderful.

I have decided that I shall not go back to my country. I have thought about it carefully, and I know now that England is my real home. I feel so happy here. How can I leave all my dear English friends and my beautiful garden?

Come and visit me soon, dear brother.

　Your loving sister

　Anne

'She sounds really happy,' said Margaret, surprised.

'I think she is,' said Uncle William. 'She didn't make trouble for the King about her divorce, so he was pleased with her. And then, of course, he was free to marry his next wife.'

'The fifth one,' said Margaret. 'And who was she?'

'Catherine will tell you all about her. I must leave you now, ladies.' He stood up, and came to kiss me goodbye.

'Goodbye, Uncle,' I said. 'Come again soon.'

'Oh, I will, I'd like to read the rest of those letters.' He looked at Margaret. 'Be good, young lady.' He smiled at us both and left the room.

reply v. say or make an answer. 回答。

ugly adj. unpleasant to look at or to hear. 丑陋的。

at any time 随时。

paint v. make (a picture) using paints; portray. 画像。

sail v. travel on water in a ship, yacht, etc. using sails or engine power. （乘船或游艇等）作水上旅游。

on one's way to in the process of going to. 在去……的路上。

secretly adv. kept or intended to be kept from the knowledge or view of others; not known by others. 秘密地。

wear v. have (sth.) on one's body, esp. as clothing, as an ornament, etc. 穿戴，佩带。

put on clothe oneself with (a garment). 穿上（衣服）。

be engaged in (of a person or two people) having agreed to marry. （指一人或两人）已订婚。

at one time at some period in the past. 一度。

spend doing/ on sth. use (time, etc.) for a purpose. 在某事上花时间。

surprised adj. experiencing or showing a feeling of surprise. 惊讶的，诧异的。

be good 好好的，别淘气。





5 ．克利夫斯的安妮


午饭后，我们坐下来闲谈了一会儿。威廉叔叔对那些信很感兴趣。

“下面要读哪一封信了？”他问道。

“克利夫斯的安妮写的那封。”我答道。

“噢，是的，亨利丑陋的妻子。我第一次见到她时，觉得她长得就像匹马！国王也那么认为！”

“像匹马？”玛格丽特说，“那她怎么成了国王的妻子呢？”

“说来话长。你想听吗？”

“是的，请讲一下吧。”玛格丽特笑着说。

“嗯，可怜的王后简去世后，亨利非常难过，也特别孤独。他想要个新的妻子，还想再要个儿子。孩子随时都可能夭折，而且爱德华的身体并不壮。所以每个人都期盼着能有一个年轻漂亮的女人成为新王后。这时，有人对亨利提到了克利夫斯的安妮，她是一位德国公主。他们说她既年轻漂亮，又聪明伶俐。那时国王正想取悦德国，因为当时他和法国的关系很不友好。当然后来一切都改变了。

“亨利不能亲自去看安妮，就派了他的画家霍尔拜因去给她画一幅像。霍尔拜因给安妮画了幅很漂亮的画像，送给了亨利。亨利立刻爱上了画中这位美貌的女人并决定娶她为妻。所以安妮乘船去了英格兰，在前往伦敦的途中，她在一个叫罗切斯特的小镇上停了一夜。亨利已迫不急待了，他不等安妮到达伦敦，就秘密地去罗切斯特见她，而她对此却一无所知。

“亨利到达她的住所时，他穿着朴素，看起来并不像个国王。他敲门走进了她的屋子。哦天啊！可怜的亨利惊呆了。这并不是画上那个美丽的女人。她一脸苦相，鼻子很长，而且她对这个陌生男人并不感兴趣。他没有告诉她自己的名字，她也不知道这就是自己未来的丈夫。多么可怕的错误啊！

“可怜的亨利穿戴整齐又回来了，这次他看起来才真正像个国王。安妮现在才明白这个陌生人就是她未来的丈夫。亨利吻了安妮，说出了自己的名字。窘迫不已的安妮朝他微笑着，但她一句英文也不会说，只能沉默不语。几分钟后亨利就离开了。他非常不悦。他的新妻子非但不漂亮，而且一句话都不能跟他说！”

“哦天呐，”玛格丽特说，她非常喜欢这个故事，“后来呢？”

“嗯，亨利很不愿意娶安妮为妻。画中那个美貌的女人哪儿去了？他想要她 ！但他无法改变现实。他不得不和丑陋的安妮结婚。”

“国王有没有试着去爱她呢？”玛格丽特问。

“不，他没有。他总想着和她离婚。”

“离了吗？”

“离了，六个月后。”

“他怎么离的婚？”

“嗯，他得知安妮在德国时曾一度和另外一个人订了婚。”

“所以他就和她离婚了？”

“是的，可怜的安妮只当了六个月的王后。”

“他们没有孩子，是吧？”

“没有，亨利从未和她同床共枕。”

“但她怎么样了呢？仍然健在吗？”

“哦，是的。咱们读一下她的信，看她说些什么。”

“可能这是封情书。”玛格丽特说。

“如果是的话，我肯定她从未得到过回音！”威廉叔叔大笑着说。他打开信开始读了起来。

里士满宫

1540年7月20日

亲爱的亨利：

对我来说，你真是个好哥哥！谢谢你每年给我500英镑，并让我住在里士满官。我每天花很多时间在花园里散步——这儿的树和花漂亮极了。

我已决定不回德国了。我仔细考虑过，知道现在英格兰才是我真正的家。我在这儿很快乐。我怎么舍得离开我亲爱的英格兰朋友们和这美丽的花园呢？

亲爱的哥哥，快来看看我吧。

爱你的妹妹

安妮

“听起来她真的很快乐。”玛格丽特惊讶地说。

“我想是的，”威廉叔叔说，“国王和她离婚，她没有找任何麻烦，所以他对她很满意。随后，当然，他就可以自由地去娶下一位妻子了。”

“第五个妻子，”玛格丽特说，“她是谁呢？”

“凯瑟琳会把她的一切都告诉你的。我现在必须走了，女士们。”他站起身来，过来和我吻别。

“再见，叔叔，”我说，“希望很快又能再见到你。”

“哦，我会来的，我很想读一下其余的信。”他看着玛格丽特，“别淘气，年轻的女士。”他朝我们两个人笑了笑，就离开了房间。





6Katherine Howard


Katherine Howard

I took the last letter out of the box and held it in my hand while I answered Margaret's questions. She wanted to know everything.

'And who was the King's fifth wife?' she asked.

'Katherine Howard.'

'Why did the King want to marry again?'

'He still wanted to have another son, you see. A brother for Prince Edward.'

'And how did he meet Katherine?' asked Margaret.

'She was one of the ladies at Queen Anne's palace, so Henry knew her already. She was only eighteen. Henry fell in love with her immediately. He called her "his beautiful flower" and sent her many expensive presents—gold and jewels and fine dresses.'

'But did she want to marry him?'

I smiled. 'If the King of England wants to marry you, how do you say no? Henry was very much in love and he wanted to marry her immediately. The Howard family is an old and famous one, and they were very happy for Katherine to marry the King.'

'Was he happy with his new Queen?'

'Yes,' I said. 'At first. She was young, beautiful, and exciting. Very different from Anne of Cleves.'

'And did she learn to love the King?'

'Who can say? But I don't think so. Henry was forty-nine, thirty years older than her. He was very, very fat and heavy. His face was more like a potato than ever, and his eyes were always half-closed. He had a very bad leg and often couldn't walk—and he was always angry when his leg hurt.'

Margaret looked at the letter in my hand. 'I don't think that I would like to marry a fat old man with a bad leg who couldn't walk!' she said.

I laughed. 'But the King's wife, remember, was also the Queen of England, the first lady in the country.'

'Yes, that's true,' said Margaret. 'And did they have a son?'

'No, they didn't. They weren't married for very long. Before Katherine married Henry, she had lovers. Henry didn't know this. He thought that he was Katherine's first lover. And about six months after Katherine married Henry, she began to see another man called Thomas Culpeper. He was tall and handsome. Katherine wrote love letters to him, and they met secretly at night.'

'What a dangerous thing to do!' said Margaret. 'Katherine wasn't very clever, I'm afraid.'

'And people saw her and began to talk about it, and somebody told the King... One of his friends wrote it all down in a letter, and put the letter into Henry's hand when he was in church.'

'Oh dear,' said Margaret. 'So then...' Already she knew what happened next.

'Yes,' I said. 'Henry was wildly angry. He talked, people say, about taking a sword and cutting off her head himself. But he sent Thomas Culpeper to prison, and soon after he sent Katherine to the Tower.'

'Like Anne Boleyn, years before,' said Margaret.

'Let's see what her letter says,' I said, opening it. 'The writing is very untidy—I think she wrote this in a hurry.'

Tower of London

11th February 1541

Dear Henry

Please forgive me! I didn't want to make you unhappy and angry. Believe me!

It's true that when I was a young girl, I was friendly with different young men. I was so young and stupid. I also spent a lot of time with Thomas Culpeper when I was your wife. But believe me, Henry, I didn't know what I was doing. Remember, I am only twenty years old now. You are so much older than me, and you understand much more about the world.

Please, Henry, please, please help me! Don't send me to my death! I am so afraid here in the Tower—I pray day and night that you will come and take me away. How can you kill your beautiful flower? They tell me that in two days' time they will cut off my head... Henry, I don't want to die! Please let me live a little longer... please! Just a few weeks... a few days... Please, Henry, please...

　Your unhappy wife

　Katherine Howard

When I finished reading the letter, Margaret was silent. Perhaps she could hear Katherine Howard's cries and see her white face.

I put the letter away, and Margaret looked at me.

'There aren't any more letters, are there?' she said.

'No,' I said. 'That was the last letter.'

expensive adj. costing a lot (of money). 昂贵的。

jewel n. ornament with precious stones set in it. 镶有宝石的装饰品。

exciting adj. causing great interest or enthusiasm. 令人激动的。

hurt v. feel or cause pain. 感到或引起疼痛。

write down put sth. down in words on paper. 将某事写在纸上。

cut off remove sth. (from sth. larger) by cutting. 砍下，割下。

untidy adj. not neat or orderly. 不整齐的，凌乱的。

in a hurry quickly, hastily. 匆忙地。

stupid adj. showing lack of good judgement; foolish. 愚蠢的，傻的。





6 ．凯瑟琳·霍华德


我回答玛格丽特的问题时，把最后一封信从盒子里拿出来，握在手里。她什么都想知道。

“谁是国王的第五任妻子？”她问道。

“凯瑟琳·霍华德。”

“国王为什么又想结婚呢？”

“他还想再要个儿子，你知道。给爱德华王子作弟弟。”

“他是怎么遇到凯瑟琳的？”玛格丽特问。

“她是安妮王后宫里的一位贵族小姐，所以亨利早就认识她了。她那时只有18岁，亨利立刻就爱上了她。他把她称作是‘他美丽的花朵’，并送给她很多贵重的礼物——金银珠宝和漂亮的衣服。”

“但是她愿意嫁给他吗？”

我笑了。“如果英格兰国王想要娶你，你又怎么能拒绝呢？亨利深深地爱着她并想马上和她结婚。霍华德家族是个名门望族，而且他们很愿意凯瑟琳嫁给国王。”

“他对他的新王后满意吗？”

“是的，”我说，“一开始是这样的。当初她年轻美貌，惹人喜爱，与克利夫斯的安妮截然不同。”

“那她试着去爱国王了吗？”

“谁知道呢？但我想没有。亨利那时已经49岁了，比她大30岁。他极其肥胖，而且很笨重。他的脸比以前更像土豆，眼睛也总是半闭着。他有一条腿不太灵便，经常无法行走——腿痛发作时他总是暴跳如雷。”

玛格丽特看着我手中的信。“我想我不会愿意嫁给一个又肥又老，且有一条腿行动不便的男人的！”她说。

我笑道：“别忘了，国王的妻子就是英格兰的王后，也就是国家的第一夫人。”

“是的，确实是这样，”玛格丽特说，“他们有儿子吗？”

“不，他们没有。他们结婚的时间并不长。凯瑟琳嫁给亨利之前，已经有了几个情人。亨利并不知道这个，他以为他 是凯瑟琳的初恋情人。凯瑟琳嫁给亨利大约六个月后，她就开始和另一个叫托马斯·卡尔佩珀的男人约会。他高大而英俊，凯瑟琳给他写情书，而且他们在夜里私会。”

“做这事儿可太危险了！”玛格丽特说，“恐怕凯瑟琳不太明智。”

“人们看见了她，并开始议论起来，后来有人把此事告诉了国王……他的一个朋友把这一切都写在了信上，趁亨利在教堂时，把信塞到了他的手里。”

“哦天呐，”玛格丽特叫道，“那么后来……”她已猜到后面发生的事了。

“是的，”我说，“亨利勃然大怒。据说，他扬言要用刀亲自把她的头砍下来。但后来他把托马斯·卡尔佩珀打入监牢，随后不久又把凯瑟琳送进了伦敦塔。”

“和几年前安妮·博伦一样。”玛格丽特说。

“咱们看看她信上说些什么，”我打开信说道，“信写得非常潦草——我想她写的时候一定很匆忙。”

伦敦塔

1541年2月11日

亲爱的亨利：

请原谅我！我没想让你不悦并惹你生气。相信我！

当我还是个少女时，的确和各种各样的年轻男子交往密切。我当时太小了，什么都不懂。和你结婚后，我也确实和托马斯·卡尔佩珀度过了很多时光。但是相信我，亨利，我不知道自己在做什么。想想看，我现在只有20岁。你比我年长很多，比我更了解世事。

求求你，亨利，求你了，求你救救我！不要让我去死！我在塔里很害怕——我整日祈祷，希望你能来把我带走，你怎么可以杀死你美丽的花朵呢？他们告诉我，会在两天内把我处死……亨利，我不想死！请让我再多活一段时间吧……求求你了！哪怕仅有几星期……几天……求求你，亨利，求求你……

你不幸的妻子

凯瑟琳·霍华德

我读完这封信时，玛格丽特沉默了。她好像听到了凯瑟琳的哭喊，看到了她苍白的脸。

我把信收了起来，玛格丽特看着我。

“没有信了，是吗？”她说。

“没有了，”我说，“那是最后一封。”





7Catherine Parr


Catherine Parr

We sat silently for a while. Outside it was beginning to get dark. Margaret looked at the floor, then at her hands, then at the floor again. I waited. I knew what she was thinking. Then suddenly she looked at me, and the questions came all at once.

'How could you do it, my lady? How could you marry that terrible man? Weren't you afraid? Why didn't you hide... or... or run away?'

I smiled at her. 'Listen to the full story, and then perhaps you'll understand. I was very different to Henry's other wives. I was thirty-one years old and Henry was my third husband. My first two husbands were old men too. They both died and I didn't have any children with them. But Herny didn't really want a wife, Margaret. He wanted a friend, and a nurse, and a mother for his three children.'

'Oh, I see,' said Margaret slowly. 'He wanted someone to look after him. So how did it all happen, then?'

'It began at a party at Hampton Court Palace. I remember it very well. While I was dancing with my friend Thomas Seymour, I turned round and saw Henry. His blue eyes were watching me. He was too ill to dance, but later that evening he asked to talk with me. I was a little afraid. I knew so many different stories about him. He was one of the most famous kings in Europe, and he was also famous for killing people who made him angry—Anne Boleyn, Katherine Howard, and many, many others. And of course, he was also very fat and ugly!

'After that evening he began to send me presents, and he asked me to visit him at Hampton Court Palace.

'At this time I was friendly with Thomas Seymour. He was a fine young man and I was in love with him. We talked about getting married. Then I got a letter from King Henry. He wanted to marry me. What could I do? I loved Thomas, but my family wanted me to be the Queen of England. And in the end, I had to marry Henry.'

'But were you happy?' asked Margaret.

'Well, sometimes I was. I loved being Queen. I had beautiful clothes and expensive jewels. But it was also very difficult at times. Henry was often ill with his bad leg, and when his leg hurt, he became angry and shouted at me. Once he nearly sent me to the Tower. I said something about the Church of England, and he didn't agree with me and got very, very angry. He didn't say anything then, but a few days later his soldiers came to take me away.'

'Oh no!' said Margaret. 'What did you do?'

'I cried and cried. I told him that I agreed with his every word, and that he was my teacher and I was only a stupid woman. And then I cried some more, and said I didn't understand anything about the church. I only talked to help him forget his bad leg.'

'And was that true?' asked Margaret.

'Of course not! But I had to say something, and after that we were friends again.'

'So you didn't love him.'

'No, I didn't, but I learned to like him some of the time. He was a clever and interesting man—and he was the King of England!'

'And what about his three children?'

'I felt sorry for them. They had a difficult and lonely life. I tried to be a good mother to them all. I was friendly with Princess Mary, played games with Elizabeth and young Edward, and helped them with their studies in different languages. Of course, Henry and I didn't have any children together.'

Suddenly there was a knock at the door. 'Come in!' I called. A young man walked into the room. He was holding some beautiful red and gold flowers.

'These are for Catherine Parr,' he said.

'For me?' I said. 'Who are they from?'

'There's a note here.' He gave me a piece of paper, smiled, and left the room.

I read the note quickly.

Dear Catherine, you are my true love. You are my flower. I think of you every hour. I wait for you. Tom.

'What does it say?' asked Margaret.

'I can't tell you,' I laughed.

'But who are the flowers from?'

'Thomas Seymour.'

'Oh, the young man who wanted to marry you before. Does he still love you? Are you going to marry him?'

'I don't know, Margaret. Henry only died three weeks ago.' I was silent for a minute. and then I said, 'It's true, I still like Thomas. I often think about him. Some people say he's only interested in two things: women and money. But I don't believe them. He has enemies, you see, because he comes from a famous family. Jane Seymour was his sister, so Thomas is one of King Edward's uncles.'

'Will Edward be a good king, do you think?' asked Margaret.

'Yes, I think so. He's a very clever child. He often writes me letters in different languages, and he's only nine years old. But I'm worried about him because he's often ill. England needs a strong king. Henry was a bad husband, but he was a strong King of England. If Edward dies, who knows what will happen?'

It was dark outside now. I looked at Margaret and said, 'So, now you have heard all about King Henry and his six wives, and one day you can tell the story to your children and your grandchildren.'

'I think that people will always remember King Henry because of his six wives,' said Margaret. She opened the box and took out the letters. She looked at them, putting them back one by one into the box.

'Divorced—beheaded—died—divorced—beheaded.' she closed the box and looked at me. 'And still alive!'

We both laughed.

'What are you going to do with the letters, my lady?'

'Nothing, Margaret. It will he our secret.'

♣　　♣　　♣

Catherine Parr married Thomas Seymour in May 1547, a few months after Henry's death. They were married for fifteen months. Catherine had a baby girl called Mary, but six days after the baby was born, Catherine died. After her death, Thomas Seymour tried to become Princess Elizabeth's lover. He was beheaded because of this.

King Edward was often ill, and he died just before his sixteenth birthday. Then Mary, Katherine of Aragon's daughter, became Queen. She was Queen for five years. She married Philip of Spain, but did not have any children. Mary was a strong Catholic and she killed many people who were not Catholics.

Next, Elizabeth, Anne Boleyn's daughter, became Queen. She was Queen of England for forty-five years. This was the time of Shakespeare and Sir Walter Raleigh. Elizabeth was a very great Queen, but she never married, and had no children, Henry married six times because he wanted a son—and he wanted his son and his son's sons to be Kings of England after him. But when Queen Elizabeth died, King Henry's family came to an end, and a Scottish King became King of England.

all at once suddenly. 突然。

turn round (cause sb./ sth. to) face in a different direction. （使某人或某物）面向另一个方向。

friendly adj. of a relationship in which people treat each other as friends. 融洽的。

at times sometimes. 有时，间或。

agree with be in harmony (with sb.); have or form a similar opinion (as sb.). 赞成，（与某人）意见一致。

note n. short letter. 便条，短信。

think about recall sb. or sth. 想起某人某事。

come to an end finish. 结束。





7 ．凯瑟琳·帕尔


我们默默地坐了片刻。外面，天渐渐地暗了下来。玛格丽特的目光一会儿盯着地板，一会儿看着她的手，一会儿又回到了地板上。我等待着。我知道她在想什么。突然她看着我，问题一下子全都涌了出来。

“你怎么会那么做呢，夫人？你怎么能嫁给那个可怕的男人呢？难道你不害怕吗？你为什么不躲起来……或者……或者跑掉呢？”

我朝她笑了笑。“听我把故事讲完，也许你就会明白的。我和亨利的其他妻子很不一样。我31岁了，亨利是我的第三任丈夫。我的前两位丈夫年龄也很大。他们都去世了，我也不曾跟他们有过孩子。但亨利并不真想要一个妻子，玛格丽特。他想要的是一个朋友，一个护士，一个可以做他三个孩子的母亲的女人。”

“噢，我明白了，”玛格丽特慢慢地说，“他想找个人来照顾他。那么，这一切又是怎么发生的呢？”

“那开始于汉普顿王宫的一次聚会上。我记得非常清楚。我和我的朋友托马斯·西摩跳舞时，一转身，看见了亨利。他的一双蓝眼睛正注视着我。他已经病得不能跳舞了，但后来，就在那天晚上，他邀请我谈话。我有点儿害怕。我听说过他许多不同的故事。他是欧洲最有名的国王之一，他也以处决惹他生气的人而闻名——安妮·博伦，凯瑟琳·霍华德，还有其他许许多多的人。当然，他还又丑又胖！

“自那晚之后，他就开始给我送礼物，他还请我去汉普顿王宫看他。

“这时我正和托马斯·西摩交往密切。他是个优秀的年轻人，我和他相爱了。我们已开始谈婚论嫁。这时我收到亨利国王的来信，他说他想娶我。我能怎么办呢？我爱托马斯，但我的家人想让我成为英格兰王后。最后，我不得不嫁给亨利。”

“但你高兴吗？”玛格丽特问。

“唔，有时我很快乐。我喜欢做王后。我有漂亮的衣服，珍贵的珠宝。但有时又感觉非常不易。亨利的病腿经常犯病，腿疼时，他就变得很暴躁，对我大喊大叫。有一次，他差点儿把我也送进伦敦塔。我说起一些关于英格兰国教的事情，他不同意我的看法，而且非常非常生气。当时他并没有说什么，但几天后他的卫兵就要把我带走。”

“哦，不！”玛格丽特大声叫道，“那你怎么办了？”

“我不停地哭喊着。我告诉他我赞成他的每一句话，他是我的老师，而我只是一个愚蠢的女人。然后我又哭诉着，说我对宗教一无所知，我只是想说些什么以帮他忘记自己腿部的疼痛。”

“那是真的吗？”玛格丽特问道。

“当然不是！但我必须说些什么，那以后我们又和好了。”

“那么说你并不爱他了。”

“是的，我不爱他，但有时我试着去喜欢他。他是个聪明而又有趣的人——还有，他是英格兰的国王！”

“他的三个孩子呢？”

“我很同情他们，他们都过着艰难而孤独的生活，我尽力去做他们的好母亲。我对玛丽公主很好，也和伊丽莎白和小爱德华做游戏，并帮助他们学习各国语言。当然，亨利和我并没有我们自己的孩子。”

突然传来了敲门声。“请进！”我大声应道。一个年轻人走了进来，手里拿着一束漂亮的红色和金黄色的花。

“这是给凯瑟琳·帕尔的。”他说。

“给我的？”我说，“谁送的？”

“这儿有张便条。”他递给我一张纸，笑着离开了。

我很快地看了一下便条。

亲爱的凯瑟琳，你是我的真爱，你是我的花朵，我时刻都在想念着你。我等你。汤姆。

“便条上写了些什么？”玛格丽特问。

“我不能告诉你。”我笑道。

“可这些花是谁送的呢？”

“托马斯·西摩。”

“噢，那个以前想娶你的年轻人。他依然爱你吗？你打算嫁给他吗？”

“我不知道，玛格丽特。亨利三个星期前才去世。”我沉默了片刻，然后说道，“真的，我仍然喜欢托马斯。我经常想起他。有人说他只对两样东西感兴趣：女人和金钱，但我不相信。他有敌人，你知道，因为他出身名门。简·西摩是他姐姐，所以托马斯是爱德华国王的一个舅舅。”

“你认为爱德华会成为一个好国王吗？”玛格丽特问。

“是的，我想他会的。他是个非常聪明的孩子，经常用不同的语言给我写信，而且他只有九岁。但我为他担心，因为他经常生病。英格兰需要一个身体强壮的国王。亨利不是一个好丈夫，但他是英格兰一个很有魄力的国王。如果爱德华死了，谁知道会发生什么事呢？”

现在外面已经全黑了。我看着玛格丽特说：“现在你已听完了亨利国王和他六个妻子的全部故事，将来你可以把这个故事告诉给你的子孙们。”

“我想人们会永远因为亨利国王有六个妻子而记住他的。”玛格丽特说。她打开盒子，把所有的信都拿了出来。她看了看它们，又一封一封地放回到盒子里。

“离婚的——砍头的——去世的——离婚的——砍头的，”她盖上盒子看着我，“依然活着的！”

我们都笑了起来。

“夫人，你打算把这些信怎么办呢？”

“什么也不干，玛格丽特。这将是我们的秘密。”

♣　　♣　　♣

1547年5月，也就是亨利去世几个月后，凯瑟琳·帕尔嫁给了托马斯·西摩。他们的婚姻维持了15个月。凯瑟琳生了个女儿，取名玛丽，但孩子出生六天后，凯瑟琳就去世了。她死后，托马斯·西摩竭力想成为伊丽莎白公主的情人，他因此被处死了。

爱德华国王经常生病，在他16岁生日前夕不幸夭折。后来玛丽，也就是阿拉贡的凯瑟琳的女儿，做了女王。她在位五年。她嫁给了西班牙的菲利浦，但他们从未生育。玛丽是个狂热的天主教徒，她杀死了很多非天主教徒。

再后来，伊丽莎白，即安妮·博伦的女儿，做了女王。她统治英格兰达45年之久。这正是莎士比亚和沃尔特·雷利爵士的时代。伊丽莎白是位非常伟大的女王，但她终生未嫁，也未生育。亨利结了六次婚，就是想要个儿子——他希望他的子孙后代都能继他之后成为英格兰国王。但当伊丽莎白女王去世后，亨利国王的家族也走到了尽头，一位苏格兰国王统治了英格兰。

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1．Read the story introduction of the book. How much do you know now about the story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Henry Ⅷ died in 1547.

YES □／NO □

2) Henry was a good husband.

YES □／NO □

3) Henry's wives were all happy.

YES □／NO □

4) Many fathers didn't want their daughters to marry Henry.

YES □／NO □

5) Two of Henry's wives were called Anne.

YES □／NO □

6) Three of Henry's wives were beheaded.

YES □／NO □

7) Katherine of Aragon was Henry's wife for a long time.

YES □／NO □

8) Katherine of Aragon died at home with her friends and family.

YES □／NO □

9) Catherine Parr died before Henry.

YES □／NO □

10) In the Palace of Whitehall, there was a box of old letters from Henry's first five wives.

YES □／NO □

2．What happened to the first five Queens? Can you guess?

3．Which words do you think you will find in this story? Put a tick next to them. Why won't you find all of them?

princess

England

letter

photograph

president

horse

telephone

London

queen

car

gun

New York

pop star

tennis

sword

apartment

Italy

cycling

painting

palace

4．This story about Henry VIII happens in England in the 1500s. How do you think life was different then?

1) Could the King always do what he wanted?

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

2) Was it important for the King to have a lot of children?

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

3) Was it important for the King to have a son?

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

4) Could women do the same things as men?

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

5) Could the King kill his enemies?

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

ACTIVITIES

While Reading

1．Read Chapter 1. One of Margaret's friends has helped her to write a letter to her mother. Use these words from the story to complete the letter. (Use each word once.)

handsome, necklace, letters, tomorrow, young, box, wives, tennis, old, yesterday, fat, hair

Dear Mother

______ I went to Whitehall Palace with my lady Catherine Parr. We found a ______ with a large gold H on the top. Inside, there were ______ from Henry's first five ______. There was also a beautiful gold ______ and a piece of ______.

Catherine Parr told me all about King Henry. When he was ______, he was very ______ and he liked horse riding and playing ______. But when he was ______, he became very ______.

We're going to read all the letters ______. I can't wait! I'll write again soon and tell you all about them.

Your loving daughter

Margaret

2．Read Chapters 2 and 3. Which words or phrases from the story go best with each wife? The first one is done for you.

wonderful black eyes, divorced, beheaded, wild and dangerous, twenty-four years, three and a half years, Princess Elizabeth, Princess Mary, Spain, a witch. Henry's brother Arthur, six. fingers, Tower of London, a sword, a gold cross

3．Read Chapters 4 and 5. Then answer these questions.

Who

1) ...could read and write in four languages when she was thirteen?

2) ...was quiet and careful?

3) ...was fat with a face like a big potato?

4) ...died soon after her son was born?

5) ...looked like a horse?

6) ...painted a picture for Henry?

7) ...couldn't speak English?

8) ...gave Anne of Cleves the palace of Richmond?

4．Read Chapter 6. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

1) Henry was eighteen years older than Katherine Howard.

2) Henry gave Katherine Howard expensive clothes and jewels.

3) Henry married Katherine because he wanted another daughter.

4) Henry was now very fat and ugly.

5) Katherine Howard had lovers before she married Henry.

6) Anne of Cleves told Henry about Katherine Howard and Thomas Culpeper.

7) Katherine Howard was a clever woman.

5．Before you read Chapter 7, can you guess the answers to these questions?

1) Catherine Parr was Henry's last wife. Why did she marry him?

2) Was Catherine Parr happy when she was married to Henry?

3) What was the King like at this time?

4) Was Catherine Parr kind to Henry's children, Mary, Elizabeth and Edward?

5) After Henry died, did Catherine Parr marry again?

6) Who was the next King or Queen of England after Edward Ⅵ?

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1．Find the answers to this crossword in the story.

ACROSS

1) Katherine Howard was much ______ than Henry. (7)

3) Anne Boleyn felt like this the day before she died. (4)

5) Anne Boleyn and Katherine Howard died here. (5, 2, 6)

7) Anne Boleyn was beheaded with this. (5)

9) Holbein's job. (6)

10) Anne Boleyn sent Henry a ______ for Elizabeth. (8)

DOWN

1) Henry wore ______ when Katherine of Aragon died. (6)

2) Catherine Parr found these in a box. (7)

3) Henry broke with the ______ Church in Rome. (8)

4) Henry married six times because he wanted a ______. (3)

6) Thomas Culpeper was Katherine Howard's ______. (5)

8) Margaret's job. (4)

2．Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with these sentences about Henry and his wives?

1) The King was right to divorce Katherine of Aragon. She couldn't have any more children and he needed a son. A king must think of his country first, before his family.

2) Anne Boleyn is the most interesting of Henry's wives. She wasn't a witch; she was just born at a time when women had to be quiet and do what men said. Today, she would be a very good wife for a king or president.

3) Henry only loved Jane Seymour because she gave him a son.

4) Anne of Cleves was the luckiest of Henry's wives.

5) Katherine Howard was too young to marry the King. It was terrible that she was beheaded at the age of twenty.

6) Catherine Parr was stupid to marry the King when he was fat, ugly, and ill.

7) It was more important for England to have a strong king than for Henry's wives to have a good husband.

3．Imagine that Mary, Elizabeth, and Edward are talking about their mothers. Who is speaking, and about which mother?

1) 'I can just remember my mother's long hair.'

2) 'I only know my mother from pictures of her.'

3) 'When my mother was dying, I wanted to be with her, but the King said no.'

4．Read this text about the life of Henry VIII. Can you find and correct the ten mistakes in it?

Henry Ⅷ, King of France, was a tall and ugly young man, who liked horse riding, football and playing music. He wrote many beautiful songs and had a wonderful singing voice.

When he was older. he became very thin. He had a very bad leg, and often couldn't walk. And when his leg hurt, he was always angry.

He married seven times because he wanted a daughter to be Queen after him. His one son, Edward VI, died just before he was thirty.

Henry VIII is famous in England's history because he broke with the Pope and the Catholic Church, and started the Church of America.

In 1587 he became very ill and died. His three children, Edward, Mary and Elizabeth, all became King and Queen after him. None of them had any children so Henry's family came to an end.

5．Write a short text about a famous person (a king, queen, president, etc.) from your own country. Use some of these words to help you.

was born in / lived in / When he / she was young / old liked / married... / had...children is famous because / died in / After his / her death

京权图字 01-96-1574

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 1994

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

哈克贝利·费恩历险记：英汉对照／（美）马克·吐温（Twain, M.）著；（英）莫厄特（Mowat, D.）改写；臧庆凤译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，1997.1（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn

ISBN 978-7-5600-1174-5

Ⅰ．①哈…　Ⅱ．①马…②莫…③臧…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②儿童文学—长篇小说—美国—近代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2013）第039354号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 李　萌

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 1997年1月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-1174-5

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





简　介


“我从来没有一个家，”哈克写道，“或像其他所有的男孩子那样去上学。我睡在街上或林子里，只要我想，我就能做我想做的事情。这真是一种美好的生活。”

所以，当哈克去和道格拉斯寡妇住在一起时，他根本不喜欢这样。他不得不保持干净、整洁，始终都要听话，还得去上学。然后，他爸爸来了，把他带走住在了林子里。起初，哈克挺高兴，但是，他爸爸总是打他，所以，哈克决定逃走。

他遇到了吉姆，一个逃跑的奴隶，他们决定结伴乘木筏沿密西西比河顺流而下。当然他们遇到各种各样的麻烦和危险，但是，哈克感到很愉快。河上的生活是如此地自由、轻松、舒适……

马克·吐温于1835年出生于佛罗里达州，1910年去世。他的真名是塞缪尔·克莱门斯，美国内战开始前，他是密西西比河船上的一名领航员。他也是一个报纸撰稿人和作家，他的小说《汤姆·索亚历险记》和《哈克贝利·费恩历险记》非常著名。





1Huck in trouble


Huck in trouble

You don't know about me if you haven't read a book called The Adventures of Tom Sawyer . Mr Mark Twain wrote the book and most of it is true. In that book robbers stole some money and hid it in a very secret place in the woods. But Tom Sawyer and I found it, and after that we were rich. We got six thousand dollars each—all gold.

In those days I never had a home or went to school like Tom and all the other boys in St Petersburg. Pop was always drunk, and he moved around a lot, so he wasn't a very good father. But it didn't matter to me. I slept in the streets or in the woods, and I could do what I wanted, when I wanted. It was a fine life.

When we got all that money, Tom and I were famous for a while. Judge Thatcher, who was an important man in our town, kept my money in the bank for me. And the Widow Douglas took me to live in her house and said I could be her son. She was very nice and kind, but it was a hard life because I had to wear new clothes and be good all the time.

In the end, I put on my old clothes and ran away. But Tom came after me and said that I had to go back, but that I could be in his gang of robbers. So, I went back, and the widow cried and I had to put on those new clothes again. I didn't like it at all. Her sister, Miss Watson, lived there too. She was always saying, 'Don't put your feet there, Huckleberry,' and 'Don't do that, Huckleberry.' It was terrible.

When I went up to bed that night, I sat down in a chair by the window. I sat there a good long time, and I was really unhappy. But just after midnight I heard 'mee-yow! mee-yow!' outside. Very softly, I answered, 'mee-yow! mee-yow!' Quietly, I put out the light and got out through the window. In the trees, Tom Sawyer was waiting for me.

We went through the trees to the end of the widow's garden. Soon we were on top of a hill on the other side of the house. Below us we could see the river and the town. One or two lights were still on, but everything was quiet. We went down the hill and found Joe Harper, Ben Rogers and two or three more of the boys. Then Tom took us down the river by boat to his secret place, which was a cave deep in the side of a hill. When we got there, Tom told us all his plan.

'Now, we'll have this gang of robbers,' he said, 'and we'll call it Tom Sawyer's Gang. If somebody hurts one of us, the others will kill him and his family. And if a boy from the gang tells other people our secrets, we'll kill him and his family, too.'

We all thought this was wonderful, and we wrote our names in blood from our fingers. Then Ben Rogers said, 'Now, what's the gang going to do?'

'Nothing,' replied Tom. 'Just rob and kill. We stop people on the road, and we kill them, and take their money and things. But we can keep a few of the people, and then their friends can pay money to get them back. That's what they do in the stories in books.'

But Ben wasn't happy. 'What about women?' he asked. 'Do we kill them, too?'

'Oh, no,' Tom answered. 'We're very nice to them, and they all love us, and they don't want to go home.'

'Then the cave will be full of women, and people waiting, and we'll have to watch them all night...'

'We'll all go home now,' Tom said, 'and we'll meet next week, and we'll kill somebody and rob somebody.'

Ben wanted to begin on Sunday, but the others said no. It was bad to kill and rob on a Sunday.

My clothes were very dirty and I was very tired when I got back. Of course, the next morning Miss Watson was angry with me because of my dirty clothes, but the widow just looked unhappy. Soon after that we stopped playing robbers because we never robbed people and we never killed them.

*　　*　　*

Time went on and winter came. I went to school most of the time and I was learning to read and write a little. It wasn't too bad, and the widow was pleased with me. Miss Watson had a slave, an old man called Jim, and he and I were good friends. I often sat talking to Jim, but I still didn't like living in a house and sleeping in a bed.

Then, one morning, there was some new snow on the ground and outside the back garden I could see footprints in the snow. I went out to look at them more carefully. They were Pop's footprints!

A minute later, I was running down the hill to Judge Thatcher's house. When he opened the door, I cried, 'Sir, I want you to take all my money. I want to give it to you.'

He looked surprised. 'Why, what's the matter?'

'Please, sir, take it! Don't ask me why!'

In the end he said, 'Well, you can sell it to me, then.' And he gave me a dollar and I wrote my name on a piece of paper for him.

That night when I went up to my room, Pop was sitting there, waiting for me! I saw that the window was open, so that was how he got in.

He was almost fifty and he looked old. His hair was long and dirty and his face was a terrible white colour. His clothes were old and dirty, too, and two of his toes were coming through his shoe. He looked at me all over for a long time, and then he said, 'Well, just look at those clean, tidy clothes! And they say you can read and write now. Who said you could go to school?'

'The widow...' I began.

'Oh, she did, did she? Well, you can forget about school. I can't read and your mother couldn't read; no one in our family could read before they died, so who do you think you are? Go on, take that book and read to me!'

I began to read, but he hit the book and it flew out of my hand, across the room. Then he shouted, 'They say you're rich—how's that'?'

'It isn't true!'

'You give me that money! I want it. Get it for me tomorrow!'

'I haven't got any money. Ask Judge Thatcher. He'll tell you. I haven't got any money.

'Well, give me what you've got in your pocket now. Come on, give it to me!'

'I've only got a dollar, and I want that to...'

'Give it to me, do you hear?'

He took it, and then he said he was going out to get a drink. When he was outside the window, he put his head back in and shouted, 'And stop going to that school, or you know what you'll get!'

The next day he was drunk, and he went to Judge Thatcher to get my money. The judge wouldn't give it to him. But Pop didn't stop trying and every few days I got two or three dollars from the judge to stop Pop from hitting me. But when Pop had money, he got drunk again and made trouble in town. He was always coming to the widow's house, and she got angry and told him to stay away. Then Pop got really angry and one day he caught me and took me a long way up the river in a boat. I had to stay with him in a hut in the woods and I couldn't go out by myself. He watched me all the time. The widow sent a man to find me and bring me home, but Pop went after him with a gun, and the man ran away.

robber n. person who steals. 强盗；贼。

matter v. be of importance. 关系重要。

famous adj. known widely. 著名的。

run away escape. 逃走。

widow n. a woman whose husband is dead. 寡妇。

terrible adj. extremely bad. 极坏的。

wait for stay where one is. 等待。

hill n. smaller than a mountain. 小山。

cave n. hole. 洞穴。

hurt v. damage. 伤害。

pay v. give money to somebody. 付款。

footprint n. a footshaped mark. 足迹；脚印。

almost adv. very nearly. 几乎；差不多。

judge n. someone who decides if a person is a criminal or not. 法官。

in the end finally. 最后；终于。

hit v. strike. 击；打。

shout v. cry. 大叫；大喊。

drink n. alcoholic liquor. 酒。

get drunk 喝醉。

make trouble bring unhappiness. 带来麻烦。

hut n. small wooden house. 小木屋。

by oneself alone. 独自地。

watch v. keep the eyes on. 监视。





1 　哈克遇到麻烦


如果你没有看过《汤姆·索亚历险记》那本书，你就不知道我。该书是马克·吐温写的，大部分是真实的。在那本书中，强盗们偷了钱，并把钱藏在了树林中一个很秘密的地方。但我和汤姆·索亚找到了这笔钱，在这之后，我们发财了。我们每个人得到了6000美元——全是金币。

在那些日子里，我从来没有一个家，或是像汤姆和圣彼得斯堡其他所有的男孩那样去上学。爸爸总是喝得醉醺醺的，经常转来转去，所以，他不是一个很好的父亲。但是，这对我来说无所谓。我睡在街上或林子里，只要我想，我就能做我想做的事情。这真是一种美好的生活。

当我和汤姆得到所有那些钱时，我们出了一阵子名。撒切尔法官是我们镇子上的一个重要人物，他替我将钱存在了银行。道格拉斯寡妇领我到她家去住，并说我可以做她的儿子。她非常和蔼，但这是一种令人难以忍受的生活，因为我不得不穿新衣服，而且始终都要听话。

最后，我穿上我的旧衣服跑掉了。可汤姆追上了我，说我得回去，但我仍可以加入他的强盗团伙。所以，我回去了，寡妇叫着，我不得不又穿上那些新衣服。我根本不喜欢这一切。她的姐姐沃森小姐也住在那儿。她总是说：“别把你的脚放在那儿，哈克贝利，”还有“别干那个，哈克贝利。”真是糟透了。

那天晚上，上床睡觉的时候，我坐在窗边的椅子上。我坐了很久，真是很难受。但是，午夜刚过，我听到外面“喵！喵！”的声音。我很轻地回答着“喵！喵！”。我轻轻地吹灭蜡烛，从窗户钻了出去。汤姆·索亚正在树丛中等我。

我们穿过树丛来到寡妇的花园的尽头。不一会儿，我们就到了房子另一头的一个小山顶上。我们能看到山下的小河和镇子。一两处烛光仍亮着，但是，万物都是静悄悄的。我们下了山，找到了乔·哈珀，本·罗杰斯，还有两三个其他的男孩。然后，汤姆用船把我们带到了那个秘密的地方，这个秘密的地方是山坡深处的一个岩洞。当我们到那时，汤姆把他的全部计划告诉了我们。

“现在，我们就来组织这个强盗团伙，”他说，“我们就叫它汤姆·索亚团伙吧。如果有人伤害我们中的某个人，其他的人就要杀了他和他的全家。如果这个团伙的哪个男孩把我们的秘密告诉了其他人，我们也要把他和他的全家都给杀喽。”

我们都觉得棒极了，我们用手指上的血写上了我们的名字。然后，本·罗杰斯说：“这团伙到底要干些什么呢？”

“什么都不干，”汤姆回答道，“只是抢劫和杀人，我们在路上拦截人，杀了他们，拿走他们的钱和东西。但是，我们可以留下几个人，这样，他们的朋友可以交钱把他们赎回去。这就是人们在书中故事里所做的。”

但是，本不高兴了。“女人怎么办？”他问道，“我们也杀她们吗？”

“噢，不，”汤姆回答。“我们待她们很友好，她们都爱我们，她们不想回家。”

“那么，岩洞里全都是女人，人们等待着，我们将不得不整夜监视她们……”

“我们现在都回家吧，”汤姆说，“我们下周碰头，杀个什么人，抢劫个什么人。”

本想星期天开始，但是，其他的人不同意。星期天杀人抢劫是不好的。

我回来时，衣服很脏，我也很疲倦。第二天早晨，当然是因为我的脏衣服，沃森小姐很生我的气，可寡妇只是看上去不高兴。之后不久，我们就不玩强盗的游戏了，因为，我们从来没抢劫过人，也从来没杀过人。

*　　*　　*

时间流逝，冬天来到了。大部分时间我去学校上学，我学认字，也学着写一点。不太糟，寡妇对我挺满意。沃森小姐有一个奴隶，是个叫吉姆的老头，我和他是好朋友。我经常坐着和他聊天，但我仍然不喜欢住在房子里和睡在床上。

后来，一天早晨，地上覆盖了一层新雪，我能够看见后花园外边雪中的脚印。我出去更加仔细地察看，是爸爸的脚印！

片刻之后，我跑下山来到了撒切尔法官家。他打开门时，我叫喊着：“先生，我要你把我的钱都拿去。我想把钱送给你。”

他看上去很惊讶。“嗨，怎么回事？”

“先生，请收下！不要问我为什么！”

最后，他说：“好吧，你可以卖给我。”他给了我一个美元，我在一张纸上为他写上了我的名字。

那天晚上，当我走进我的房间时，爸爸坐在那儿，正在等我！我看见窗户是开着的，所以，他是从窗户进来的。

他差不多50岁了，显得很老。他的头发又长又脏，脸色白得可怕。他的衣服也又旧又脏，两个脚指头从鞋里露了出来。他久久地上下打量着我，然后说道：“噢，就看看这些干净、整齐的衣服吧！他们说你现在能认字、写字了。谁说你可以上学了？”

“寡妇……”我开始说。

“噢，她说的，是吗？好吧，你可以不提学校。我不认字，你妈不认字；咱们家人一直到死，都没有人认字，所以，你觉得你挺不错吧，拿起那本书，给我念念！”

我开始念，但是，他把书从我的手里打飞，穿过房间。然后，他喊道：“他们说你发财了——那是怎么回事？”

“那不是真的！”

“你把钱给我！我要钱。明天给我把钱拿来！”

“我没有钱。问问撒切尔法官，他会告诉你。我没有钱。”

“好吧，把你口袋里的钱给我。快点，把钱给我！”

“我只有一美元，我想用它去买……”

“把钱给我，你听见没有？”

他拿了钱，然后他说他要去喝一杯。到了窗外时，他把头伸了回来，叫喊道：“别再去那个学校了，否则你清楚你会得到什么！”

第二天，他喝醉了，他去了撒切尔法官家去要我的钱，法官没给他。但是，爸爸不停地去要钱。每隔几天，我就从法官那儿拿两三美元给爸爸，免得他打我。但是，爸爸有钱时，就喝醉酒，在镇上惹麻烦。他总是到寡妇的家里来，寡妇很气愤，让他走开。爸爸真生气了。一天，他抓住了我，用一只船带我往河上游走了很长一段路。我不得不和他待在树林中的一个小木屋里，我不能独自外出。他一直监视着我。寡妇派了个人找我，要把我带回家，可是爸爸拿了支枪跟在后面，那个人被吓跑了。





2Huck escapes and finds a friend


Huck escapes and finds a friend

Mostly it was a lazy, comfortable kind of life, but after about two months Pop began to hit me too much with his stick. He often went away into town too, and then he always locked me in the hut. Once he was away for three days and I thought I was never going to get out again.

When he came back that time, he was drunk and angry. He wanted my money, but Judge Thatcher wouldn't give it to him. The judge wanted to send me to live with the widow again, Pop told me. I wasn't very pleased about that. I didn't want to go back there.

So I decided to escape and go down the river and live in the woods somewhere. When Pop was out, I began to cut a hole in the wooden wall of the hut. In a few days, when the hole was bigger, I could take the wood out, escape through the hole, and put the wood back.

One morning Pop sent me down to the river to catch some fish for breakfast. To my surprise, there was a canoe in the water and there was no one in it. Immediately, I jumped into the river and brought the canoe to the side. It was lucky that Pop didn't see me, and I decided to hide the canoe under some trees and use it when I escaped.

That afternoon, Pop locked me in and went off to town. 'He won't be back tonight,' I thought, so I began to work hard at my hole. Soon I could get out through it, and I carried food and drink and Pop's gun down to the canoe. Then I put back the wood to hide the hole, took the gun and went into the woods. There I shot a wild pig and took it back to the hut with me. Next, I broke down the door with an axe. I carried the pig into the hut and put some of its blood on the ground. Then I put some big stones in a sack and pulled it along behind me to the river. Last of all, I put some blood and some of my hair on the axe. I left the axe in a corner of the hut and I took the pig down to the river.

'They won't know it's only a pig in the river,' I said to myself. 'They'll think it's me.'

Then I took the canoe and went down the river to Jackson's Island. By then it was nearly dark, so I hid the canoe under some trees and went to sleep.

It was after eight o'clock when I woke up the next day and the sun was high in the sky. I was warm and comfortable and I didn't want to get up. Suddenly, I heard a noise up the river. Carefully, I looked through the trees, and I saw a boat full of people. There was Pop, Judge Thatcher, Tom Sawyer and his Aunt Polly and his brother Sid, and lots of others. They were looking for my body in the river. I watched them, but they didn't see me, and in the end they went away. I knew that nobody was going to come and look for me again. I found a good place under the trees to sleep and to put my things. Then I caught a fish and cooked it over a fire.

I lived like that for three days, and then I decided to have a look round the island. So I went into the woods. 'This is my island,' I thought. 'I'm the only person on it.'

Suddenly, just in front of me, I saw a fire, and it was still smoking. There was somebody on my island! I didn't wait. I turned and went straight back. But I couldn't sleep. After a time, I said to myself, 'I can't live like this. I must find out who it is.'

Silently, I moved along the river in my canoe, under the darkness of the trees. And then I stopped. Through the trees I could see the light of a fire. Afraid, I left my canoe and went nearer. There was a man lying by the fire. Suddenly, he sat up and I saw that it was Jim, Miss Watson's slave! I was really happy to see him! 'Hello, Jim,' I cried, and I jumped out from behind the tree.

Jim fell to his knees. 'Please don't hurt me!' he cried. 'I've always been good to dead people!'

'It's all right, Jim. I'm not dead,' I said. 'But why are you here on the island?' I asked.

'Well, Huck,' he began. 'Old Miss Watson wanted to sell me. A man came into town and told Miss Watson that he'd buy me for eight hundred dollars. She couldn't say no, so I ran away. I ran down to the river to hide, but everybody in the town was there. They said you were dead, Huck. I had to wait all day to get away. When it was dark, I got on to a big boat and hid. When we came near this island, I jumped into the water and swam here.'

Jim finished his story and then we both carried all our things into a cave and hid the canoe under some trees. We were just in time because then the rains came. It rained for days, and the river got higher and higher. All kinds of things came down the river and one night there was a little wooden house, lying half on its side. We got the canoe out and went to take a look. Through the window we could see a bed, two old chairs and some old clothes. There was something lying in the corner and we thought it looked like a man. Jim went in to see, but he said, 'He's dead. Someone shot him in the back. Don't look at his face, Huck. It's terrible!'

I didn't want to see the dead man's face, so I didn't look. We just took the old clothes and a few other things, and went back to our cave on the island.

Another night, when we were out looking for things on the river, we found a raft. It was made of good, strong wood, and was about four metres by five metres. 'This could be useful,' I said to Jim, so we pulled it back to the island behind the canoe, and tied it up under the trees.

lock v. fasten with a lock. 锁。

canoe n. 独木舟。

immediately adv. suddenly. 突然地。

go off leave. 离去。

go into enter. 走进。

work at sth. giving time to sth. 致力于。

carry v. take out. 取出；拿。

break down get down. 将（门、墙）捣毁。

catch v. get hold of. 捕捉；抓住。

cook v. prepare by heating. 烹调。

find out discover. 探知。

lie v. be at rest. 躺；卧。(p.t. lay, p.p. lain, pres. part. lying)

slave n. a person who belongs to someone and has to work, but gets no money. 奴隶。

hide v. prevent from being seen. 藏起来 (p.t. hid, p.p. hidden) 。

in time not late. 及时。

raft n. 筏。

tie v. fasten or bind. 捆；扎。





2 　哈克出逃并找到一个朋友


生活基本上是懒散、舒适的，但是，大约两个月后，爸爸开始更加狠命地用棍子打我。他也经常离开小木屋到镇上去，然后，他总是把我锁在小木屋内。有一次，他走了三天，我想我永远也出不去了。

那次他回来时，醉醺醺的，而且还很生气。他想要我的钱，但撒切尔法官不给他。爸爸告诉我，法官想把我送去再和寡妇住在一起。我对此不太高兴。我不想回那儿去。

所以，我决定逃走，顺流而下，住在森林里的什么地方。爸爸出去的时候，我开始在小木屋的木墙上挖洞。过不了几天，洞大些的时候，我就可以把木头拿开，从洞里逃走，然后把木头放回去。

一天早晨，爸爸打发我到河里去抓鱼当早餐。令我吃惊的是河里有一只独木舟，里面没有人。我立即跳进河里，把独木舟拉到了岸边。幸运的是爸爸没看见我，我决定把独木舟藏在树下，等我逃跑时好用。

那天下午，爸爸把我锁在屋里到镇上去了。我想：“他今晚不会回来了。”所以，我开始拼命挖洞。不久，我就能钻出去了。我带上吃的、喝的和爸爸的枪上了独木舟。然后，我把那块木头放回去把洞掩盖起来，拿上枪，进了林子。在森林里，我打了一只野猪，把它带回了小木屋。接着，我用斧子把门劈开，拖着猪进了小木屋，在地上弄了些猪血。然后，我在袋子里放了些大石头，拽着袋子一直到了河边。最后，我在斧子上弄了些血和我的头发。我把斧子丢在小木屋的一个墙角，把猪扔到了河里。

“他们不会知道河里的东西只是一头猪，”我自言自语道。“他们会以为那是我。”

然后，我解下独木舟，顺流而下来到杰克逊岛。那时候，天快黑了，所以，我把独木舟藏在树下，然后睡觉了。

第二天当我醒来时，已是8点多了，太阳已高高地挂在天上了。我感觉暖融融的，很舒服，我不想起来。突然，我听到河上游一阵喧闹声，我透过树丛仔细观看，看见一艘挤满人的船。船上有爸爸、撒切尔法官、汤姆·索亚和他的菠莉姨妈，还有汤姆的弟弟锡德以及许多其他的人。他们在河里寻找我的尸体。我看着他们，可他们没看见我。最后，他们走了。我知道不会有人再来找我了。我在树下找了个睡觉、放东西的好地方。然后，我抓到了一条鱼，在火上烤了。

我在岛上就这样生活了三天。然后，我决定到岛上转一转。我进了森林。“这是我的岛，”我想，“我是这岛上唯一的一个人。”

突然，就在我面前，我看见了一堆火，仍然冒着烟。我的岛上还有别人！我一刻没停，转过身来，径直回到原地。但我睡不着觉。过了一段时间，我自言自语道：“我不能这样的生活下去，我必须弄清楚他是谁。”

我坐在独木舟里，借着树影的黑暗，轻轻地顺流而下。然后，我停了下来。透过树丛，能看见一处火光。我胆战心惊地离开了独木舟，靠近火堆。有个人躺在火边。突然，他坐了起来，我看见那人是吉姆，沃森小姐的奴隶！看见他，我真高兴！“你好，吉姆！”我喊道，从树后跳了出来。

吉姆跪了下来。“请别伤害我！”他叫道。“对死去的人，我一直总是友好的！”

“没事儿，吉姆。我没死，”我说，“可你为什么在这个岛上呢？”我问。

“唉，哈克，”他开始道，“老沃森小姐想要卖我。一个男人来到镇上告诉沃森小姐，他要花800美元买我。她答应了，所以，我就逃了。我跑到河边藏了起来，可镇上所有的人都在那儿。他们说你死了，哈克。我不得不等上一整天再逃走。天黑时，我上了一条大船，藏在那儿，当我们靠近这个岛时，我跳进水里，游到了这儿。”

吉姆讲完了他的经历，然后，我们俩把我们所有的东西都搬到了一个岩洞里，把独木舟藏在树下。我们刚干完，就下起了雨。雨接连下了数日，河水越涨越高。各种各样的东西从河上游漂了下来。一天夜里，有一座小木房子斜着浮在水面上。我们把独木舟弄出来，划过去看了看。透过窗户，我们能看到一张床，两把旧椅子，还有一些旧衣服。屋角那儿躺着什么东西，看起来像个人。吉姆进去看了看，可他说：“他死了。有人在他背后开了枪。别看他的脸，哈克。太可怕了！”

我根本不想看死人的脸，所以我没看。我们拿了些旧衣服和一些别的东西，便回到了岛上的岩洞里。

又一天夜里，当我们出去寻找河上的东西时，我们发现了一个木筏子。它是由很好、很结实的木头做成的，大约5米长，4米宽。“可能会有用的，”我对吉姆说。所以，我们把它拖在小木舟后带了回来，并把它栓在了树下。





3Huck and Jim travel south


Huck and Jim travel south

For some days everything went along quietly, but we were getting bored. We wanted to know what was happening in town and so I decided to go and find out. Jim said, 'Why don't you wear the old dress and the hat that we found in the house? People won't know you, then. They'll think you're a girl.' And so I did.

Just after it was dark, I got into the canoe and went up the river to the bottom of the town. There, I left the canoe and went on foot. Before long, I came to a little house which was always empty. Now there was a light on, and when I looked through the window, I saw a woman of about forty. She was a stranger and that was good because she didn't know me. So I knocked on the door. 'I must remember that I'm a girl,' I said to myself.

The woman opened the door. 'Come in,' she said. She looked at me with her little bright eyes. 'What's your name?' she asked.

'Sarah Williams,' I replied. 'I'm going to see my uncle, on the other side of town. My mother's ill, you see, and she needs help.'

'Well, you can't go there by yourself now. It's too dark. My husband will be home in about an hour. Wait for him and he'll walk with you.'

And then she began to tell me about all her troubles. I was getting bored with all this until she said something about Pop and my murder.

'Who did it?' I asked.

'Well,' she replied, 'some people say old Finn did it himself; other people think it was a slave who ran away that night. His name was Jim. They'll give three hundred dollars to anybody who finds him—and they'll give two hundred dollars for old Finn. He got drunk and left town with two strangers. A lot of people think he killed his boy and he's going to come back one day, and get all Huck Finn's money.'

'And what about the slave?' I asked.

'Oh, they'll soon catch him. People want the three hundred dollars. I think he's on Jackson's Island, you know. I've seen smoke there. My husband's gone to get two of his friends and they're going over there with a gun later tonight.'

When I heard this, my hands began to shake. The woman looked at me strangely, but then she smiled and said kindly, 'What did you say your name was?'

'M-Mary Williams.'

'Oh,' she said, 'I thought it was Sarah.'

'Er... well, yes, it is. Sarah Mary Williams. Some people call me Sarah and some people call me Mary, you see.'

'Oh, do they?' She smiled again. 'Come on, now—what's your real name? Bill? Bob? I know you're not really a girl.'

So then I had to tell her another story, with a different name, and I said I was running away. She said she wouldn't tell anybody, and gave me some food before I left. I hurried back to the island and Jim.

'Quick, Jim!' I cried, waking him up. 'They're coming to get us!'

We got out the raft as fast as we could, put all our things on it, tied the canoe on behind, and moved off down the river. When it began to get light, we hid. When it was dark again, we travelled on. On the fifth night we passed St Louis, and we decided to go on down to Cairo in Illinois, sell the raft there and get a boat to Ohio. There are no slaves in Ohio.

We slept for most of that day and we began our journey again when it was dark. After some time, we saw lights on the Illinois side of the river and Jim got very excited. He thought it was Cairo. Jim got the canoe ready and I went off in it to take a look al those lights. But it wasn't Cairo.

After that, we went on down the river. Ii was very dark that night and it wasn't easy to see where we were going. Suddenly, a big steamboat came at us very fast, and the next minute it was right over us. Jim and I jumped off the raft into the water. The boat hit the raft and went on up the river.

When I came up out of the water, I couldn't see Jim anywhere. I called out his name again and again, but there was no answer. 'He's dead!' I thought. Slowly, I swam to the side of the river and got out. I saw that I was near a big old wooden house. Suddenly a lot of very angry dogs jumped out at me. They made a terrible noise and someone called from the house, 'Who's there?'

'George Jackson,' I answered quickly. 'I've fallen off a river boat.'

Well, the people who lived in that house were very kind, and they took me in and gave me some new clothes and a good meal. I told them that my family were all dead, so they said I could stay with them as long as I wanted. It was a beautiful house and the food was good there, so I stayed.

A few days later one of the slaves in the house came to me and said, 'Come with me!' Together, we went down to some trees by the river. 'In there!' he said and went away.

On the ground, I found a man, asleep. It was Jim! I was really pleased to see him. When the steamboat hit the raft, Jim told me, the raft didn't break up. Jim swam after it and caught it. Then he began to look for me.

We decided to leave at once. It's all right living in a house for a little while, but you feel more free and easy and comfortable on a raft.

go along proceed. 进行。

get bored be tired of. 厌烦。

on foot walking. 步行。

before long soon. 不久。

trouble n. worry; unhappiness; difficulty. 不幸，困难。

murder n. unlawful killing of a person. 谋杀。

hurry v. move quickly. 匆忙；赶快。

canoe n. light boat moved by one or more paddles. 独木舟。

travel v. going to a place. 旅程；路程。

steamboat n. vessel propelled by steam. 汽船。

noise n. loud and unpleasant sound. 噪音；闹声。

fall v. go down. 落下；跌下。

as long as provided that. 只要；如果。





3 　哈克和吉姆向南旅行


几天来，一切都很顺利。但是，我们有点烦了。我们想知道镇上发生了什么事情，于是，我决定去查清楚。吉姆说：“你为什么不穿上我们在那木房子里找到的旧衣服，戴上那帽子呢？那样，人们就不会认出你。他们会以为你是一个女孩呢。”于是，我照着他说的做了。

天刚黑，我上了独木舟，往上游划去来到镇边。我把独木舟留在那儿，步行前往。不久，我来到了一座小房子前。这座小房子以前一直是空的，但现在里面有亮光，当我透过窗户往里望时，我看到了一位大约40岁的女人。是个陌生人，这不错，因为她不认识我。所以，我敲了敲门，“我必须记住我是一个女孩儿，”我自言自语道。

那女人开了门。“进来吧，”她说道。她用她那小小的、亮亮的眼睛打量着我。“你叫什么名字？”她问道。

“萨拉·威廉斯，”我回答道。“我打算去见我的舅舅，他住在镇子的另一头。你瞧，我妈妈病了，她需要帮助。”

“噢，你现在不能自己去那儿，天太黑了。我丈夫大约l小时后会回来。等等他，他会跟你一起去的。”

然后，她开始对我讲起她的烦恼。对她所讲的这一切我变得厌烦了，直到她谈起爸爸和我的那件凶杀案。

“是谁干的？”我问道。

“嗯，”她回答道，“有人说是老费恩自己干的，其他的人认为是一个那天夜里逃走的奴隶干的。他的名字叫吉姆。他们出价300美元悬赏捉拿吉姆——并且他们出价200美元悬赏捉拿老费恩。他喝得醉醺醺的，和两个陌生人离开了镇子。许多人认为是他杀了他的儿子，有朝一日，他会回来，并且会得到哈克·费恩所有的钱。”

“那奴隶怎么样了？”我问道。

“噢，他们不久就会抓住他的。人们想要那300美元。我想，他在杰克逊岛上，我看到了那里有烟。我丈夫去找他的两个朋友，今夜晚些时候，他们带着枪要到那儿去。”

当我听到这消息时，我的手开始颤抖起来。那女人奇怪地看着我，然后，她笑了，和蔼地说道：“你说你叫什么名字？”

“玛——玛丽·威廉斯。”

“噢”，她说道，“我原以为是萨拉。”

“ ……噢，是的，是萨拉·玛丽·威廉斯。听我说，有的人叫我萨拉，有的人叫我玛丽。”

“噢，是吗？”她又笑道，“得啦，现在把你的真实名字告诉我？比尔？鲍勃？我知道你的确不是一个女孩儿。”

然后，我不得不又编了一个谎话告诉她，谎话中我又换了一个名字。我说道，我正在离家出走。她说她不会告诉任何人，并给了我些吃的，然后，我走了。我急忙回到了岛上，回到了吉姆那儿。

“快点，吉姆！”我喊着把他叫醒。“他们来抓我们了！”

我们尽快地把木筏拉出来，把我们所有的东西放在上面，把独木舟栓在木筏后面，顺流而下。天快亮时，我们藏起来，天再黑时，我们继续走。第五天夜里，我们经过了圣路易斯，我们决定继续顺流而下到伊利诺伊州的开罗去，在那儿卖掉木筏，弄条船到俄亥俄州去。俄亥俄州没有奴隶。

那天的大部分时间我们在睡觉，天黑时，我们又开始了我们的旅行。一段时间后，我们看到了河岸边伊利诺伊州的灯光，吉姆兴奋极了，他以为是开罗。吉姆把独木舟准备好，我乘着独木舟前去看看那些灯光，可那不是开罗。

之后，我们继续顺流而下。那天夜里，天很黑，不太容易看清我们在往哪儿走。突然，一只汽船速度很快地冲着我们开过来了，紧接着，它朝我们头顶上压过来。我和吉姆从木筏上跳进水里。汽船撞到了木筏，继续往上游开去。

当我露出水面时，我哪儿也看不到吉姆。我一遍又一遍地大声喊着他的名字，可是没有回答。我想，“他死了！”慢慢地，我游向河边上了岸。就在附近，我看到了一座宽大的老式木房子。突然，许多发怒的狗扑向我。他们发出可怕的吠声，有人在屋里喊道，“谁在哪儿？”

“乔治·杰克逊，”我很快地回答，“我从船上掉到河里了。”

住在那房子里的人很和蔼，他们领我进屋，给了我些新衣服和一顿丰盛的饭。我告诉他们我的家人都死了，于是，他们说我想住多久就能住多久。这是一座漂亮的房子，吃得也不错，于是，我住了下来。

几天后，那家的一个奴隶来找我说：“跟我来！”我们一起来到下游方向河边的小树林。“在那儿！”他说着走开了。

我发现一个人睡在地上，是吉姆！看见他，我真是高兴极了。吉姆告诉我，汽船撞着木筏时，木筏并没有散开。吉姆游着追上那木筏并抓住了。然后，他开始寻找我。

我们决定立即离开。在房子里小住一阵还行，但在木筏上，你感到更自由、更轻松、更舒服。





4The Duke and the King


The Duke and the King

Two or three days and nights went by and nothing much happened. We travelled at night when it was dark and everybody was asleep. We didn't want anyone to see Jim and ask questions about him.

Then, one morning, just after it was light, I found a little canoe, so I got into it and went over to the side of the river. I was looking round, when, suddenly, two men ran through the trees.

'Help!' they cried. 'There are men and dogs trying to catch us. But we've done nothing wrong!'

One of the men was about seventy years old; the other was about thirty, and they both had very old, dirty clothes. I said they could come with me, and we ran quickly back to the canoe.

Back on the raft we talked for a time and then the young man said, 'My friends, I think I can tell you my secret now. I'm really a duke. My grandfather was the son of the Duke of Bridgewater, but he left England and came to America. When the old Duke died, my grandfather's younger brother stole everything and made himself the Duke of Bridgewater.'

Well, of course, we were all very unhappy for our friend the Duke, but he said, 'I'll be happier if you do things for me. Bring me my dinner!'

So we did things for him, and he liked it. But the old man spoke very little and he looked unhappy, too. After a time he said, 'You know, Bridgewater, I, too, have a secret.' And he began to cry.

'What do you mean?' the Duke asked. 'What's your secret?'

And then the old man told us that he was really the first son of the King of France. He asked us all to go down on one knee when we spoke to him. We could call him 'Your Majesty', too. So that was what we did, and they were both happy. Of course, I knew that they weren't really a duke and a king, but I didn't tell Jim. It's best if everybody is happy when you're living together on a raft.

The King and the Duke were very interested in Jim. 'Is he a slave?' they wanted to know. 'Is he running away?'

I had to tell them something, so I said that Jim belonged to my uncle and was taking me to my family in New Orleans.

'Well, we'll travel down river with you, then,' said the King. 'We'll have a fine time together.'

So the four of us went on down the river, but Jim and I didn't like those two men. They were always getting drunk and making plans to get money out of people in every town. It's all right to take a chicken or something if you're hungry, but these men were really bad! Jim and I decided to get away from them as soon as we could. It wasn't easy because they wanted to be with us all the time.

Then one morning the King went off into a town and told us to wait for him. We waited all morning and he didn't come back, so the Duke and I went into town to look for him. We looked all afternoon and in the end we found him in a bar, drunk, and then he and the Duke began to fight about some money.

'Now we can get away from them,' I thought. I turned and ran back to the river. 'Quick, Jim!' I shouted. 'It's time to go!' But there was no answer. Jim wasn't there!

I ran into the woods, crying and shouting Jim's name. But there was still no answer.

Just then a boy came along. 'Have you seen a slave?' I asked him, and I described Jim.

'Why, yes,' the boy replied. 'He's a runaway slave. I heard all about it in town. A family called the Phelpses have got him now. An old man in a bar told Mr Phelps that there was a runaway slave on a raft down by the river. He said he hadn't got time to take the slave back himself. So Mr Phelps gave him forty dollars and they went down and caught the slave this afternoon. The Phelpses are going to take him back to his owner, and they'll get three hundred dollars for him!'

I knew those two men were bad! I asked the boy where the Phelpses lived and he said it was a big white house a little way down the river.

I began to make plans to get Jim back. First, I took the raft and went down to a little island. I hid the raft under the trees and lay down to sleep. Before it was light, I went off down the river in the canoe. When I thought I was near the Phelpses' place, I stopped, got out of the canoe and went up to the house. Suddenly, a lot of dogs ran out. They came from everywhere and they made a terrible noise.

A woman about fifty years old ran out of the house, with some little children behind her. She was smiling all over her face and she took me by the hands and cried, 'It's you, at last, isn't it?'

I didn't stop to think. 'Yes, ma'am,' I said.

'Well, what took you so long? We thought you were coming two days ago. Your Uncle Silas goes to town every day to meet you. He's there now, but he'll be back soon.' She didn't stop talking and I couldn't tell her that she was making a mistake. 'Tell us all about them,' she cried. 'Tell me everything.'

I knew then that I had to tell her ... but just then she cried, 'Here he is! Quick, hide!' and she pushed me inside the house and behind the front door. Then her husband came in and she asked him, 'Has he come?'

'No,' her husband replied.

'Look!' she shouted, and then she pulled me out from behind the door.

'Why, who's that?' Mr Phelps cried, surprised.

'It's Tom Sawyer!' she laughed.

go by pass. 经过。

happen v. take place. 发生。

cry v. make sounds that express feelings. 喊叫；号叫。

both pron. the two. 两者。

duke n. a man who is the head of a very important family. 公爵。

secret n. sth. hidden. 秘密。

mean v. signify. 含……之意。

king n. the most important man in a country. 国王。

be interested in be concerned with. 感兴趣的。

belong to be the property of. 属于。

fine adj. enjoyable. 美好的。

hungry adj. causing hunger. 饥饿的。

all the time first and last. 始终；一直。

bar n. 酒吧。

fight v. use physical force. 打架。

get away manage to leave. 设法离开；逃脱。

turn v. move so as to face in a different direction. 转身；转动。

come along appear, arrive. 出现；到达。

describe v. give a picture of in words. 描述。

reply v. give an answer. 回答。

smile v. show pleasure. 微笑。

take sb. by the hands 拉住某人的手。

ma'am n. madam. 夫人。

mistake n. wrong opinion, idea. 错误。

push v. cause forward movement. 推（某人或某物）（与pull相对）。





4 　公爵和国王


二三个昼夜过去了，没发生什么事。我们在夜里旅行，那时天黑，别人都在睡觉。我们不想让任何人看见吉姆，问起有关他的问题。

一天早晨，天刚刚亮，我发现了一只小独木舟，于是，我上了独木舟来到了河边。我正在环视着，突然，两个男人跑着穿过树林。

“救命！”他们喊道，“有人想要抓我们，还带着狗。可我们没做错事！”

其中一个人大约70岁，另外一个人大约30岁，他们俩都穿着很旧很脏的衣服。我跟他们说可以跟我来，我们很快跑回到了独木舟那儿。

回到木筏上，我们说了一会儿话。然后，年轻人说道：“我的朋友们，我想，现在我能告诉你们我的秘密了。其实我是个公爵。我祖父是布里奇沃特公爵的儿子，可他离开了英国，来到了美国。老公爵死时，我祖父年轻的兄弟偷走了一切，变成了布里奇沃特公爵。”

当然了，我们为我们的公爵朋友感到很难过，但他说：“如果你们为我做事，我会更高兴，把我的饭拿来！”

所以，我们为他做事，他喜欢这样。可那个老人话说得很少，看上去也不高兴。过了一会，他说：“你要知道，布里奇沃特，我也有秘密。”他开始哭起来。

“你是什么意思？”公爵问道，“你有什么秘密？”

然后，那老人告诉我们，他的确是法国国王的长子。他要求我们跟他讲话时要单腿跪下。我们也可以称他为“陛下”。所以，这就是我们所做的一切，他们俩都很高兴。当然，我知道他们根本不是什么公爵和国王，可我没告诉吉姆。当你们共同生活在一只木筏上时，如果每一个人都快乐，那是最好不过了。

国王和公爵对吉姆很感兴趣。“他是一个奴隶吗？”他们想知道，“他正在逃跑吗？”

我得对他们说些什么，于是我说吉姆归我叔叔所有，他正把我送到新奥尔良的家去。

“噢，那么，我们和你们一起旅行，”国王说道，“我们在一起会度过愉快的时光。”

于是，我们四人顺流而下，可我和吉姆不喜欢那两个人。他们总是喝得醉醺醺的，并计划在每一个镇上从人们那里搞到钱。如果你饿了，拿只鸡或什么的还可以，可这俩人坏透了。我和吉姆决定尽快地摆脱他们。这不容易，因为他们总要跟着我们。

有一天，国王到一个镇上去了，让我们等他。我们等了他一上午，他没回来。于是，我和公爵到镇上去找他。我们找了一下午，最后，在一个酒吧里找到了他，他醉醺醺的。然后，他和公爵为钱开始打起来。

“现在，我们能摆脱他们了，”我想。我转身跑回河边。“快点，吉姆！”我大声喊着，“是走的时候了！”可没人答应。吉姆不在那儿！

我跑进树林，喊着叫着吉姆的名字。可是，仍然没有回答。

正在那儿时，一个男孩过来了。“你看见一个奴隶了吗？”我问他，并描述了一下吉姆。

“看见了，”那男孩回答道，“他是一个逃跑的奴隶。我是在镇上听到这些的。斐尔普斯一家人抓到了他。酒吧里的一个老头告诉斐尔普斯先生，在河下游方向河边的木筏上有一个逃跑的奴隶。他说，他自己没有时间亲自把那奴隶抓来。于是，斐尔普斯先生给了他40美元，今天下午到那去抓住了那个奴隶。斐尔普斯打算把他送回到他的主人那儿去。为了这个奴隶，他们会得到300美元！”

我知道那俩人坏透了！我问那男孩儿斐尔普斯家住哪儿？他说是河下游不太远的一座大白房子。

我开始制定救吉姆的计划。首先，我乘木筏顺流而下来到一个小岛。我把木筏藏在树下，躺下睡着了。天亮之前，我乘着独木舟顺流而下。当我觉得我已靠近斐尔普斯住处时，我停了下来，从独木舟上下来，朝那座房子走去。突然，有许多狗跑出来。他们朝我围过来，发出可怕的叫声。

一位大约50岁的女人跑出屋来，身后跟着几个小孩子。她满脸笑容，拉住我的手叫道：“你终于来了，是吧！”

我连想都没想，就说：“是的，夫人。”

“是什么使你耽搁了这么久？我们以为你两天前就到哪。你的姨夫赛拉斯每天都到镇上去接你。他现在就在那儿，不过，他很快就会回来。”她不停地说着，我无法告诉她，是她弄错了。“把他们的事都告诉我，”她大声说道，“把一切都告诉我。”

那时我明白了，我不得不告诉她……可就在那时，她喊道：“他来了！快点，藏起来！”她把我推到屋里，藏在前门后。然后，她丈夫走了进来，她问他，“他来了吗？”

“没有，”她丈夫回答道。

“看看！”她大声说道，然后，她把我从门后拉出来。

“咦，这是谁？”斐尔普斯先生惊奇地大声说道。

“这是汤姆·索亚！”她笑道。





5The plan to free Jim


The plan to free Jim

When I heard that, I nearly fell through the floor, but it was a big piece of luck. It was easy for me to be Tom Sawyer because Tom was my best friend. He and his brother Sid lived with their Aunt Polly up in St Petersburg, and I knew all about them. Now I learnt that Aunt Polly had a sister, who was Mrs Phelps. She and her husband were Tom's Aunt Sally and Uncle Silas. And Tom was coming down south by boat to stay with them for a bit.

We all sat there talking and I could answer all their questions about the Sawyer family. I was feeling really happy about this when suddenly I heard a boat on the river. 'Tom could be on that boat,' I thought, 'and he's going to walk in here and call out my name before I can stop him. I've got to go and meet him.'

So I told the Phelpses that I would go into town to get my bags, which were at the boat station. I hurried up the road and before I was halfway to town, there was Tom Sawyer coming along.

When he saw me, his mouth fell open and he looked a bit white in the face. 'Aren't you dead?' he said. 'Everybody said that you were murdered!'

'I'm not dead yet,' I said, 'but listen ...' I told him about my adventures, and Tom loved all that. Then I told him about the Phelpses and that they thought I was Tom Sawyer. 'What shall we do?' I asked him.

Tom thought for a bit, and then he said, 'I know. You take my bags and say they're yours. I'll come to the house in about half an hour.'

'All right,' I said, 'but there's another thing. You know old Miss Watson's slave Jim, who ran away? Well, he's a prisoner here, and I'm going to help him escape.'

'Jim?' Tom said. 'But he's—' Then he stopped and thought. 'Right. I'll help, too, I'll make a really good plan.' He looked very excited.

So I went back to the house with the bags, and Tom came along half an hour later. He knocked on the door and when his Aunt Sally opened it, he said he was Sid, Tom's brother. He wanted his visit to be a surprise for his dear old Aunt Sally, he said.

Well, Aunt Sally was very pleased to see Tom and Sid. She thought it was wonderful. She and Uncle Silas were really nice people.

When we were alone later, Tom and I talked about Jim's escape. I said I had a plan, and Tom listened to it.

'It's a good plan,' he said when I finished. 'But it's too easy! It's got to be a real escape, like a real adventure in a story-book. So we want something difficult and dangerous. Now, listen to this...'

So he told me his plan. I knew it would be a good one because Tom's plans are always crazy and exciting.

And we sure had a lot of fun with that plan! We knew that Jim was locked up in a hut outside the house. Every night we got out through our bedroom window and dug a hole right under the wall of the hut. It took us a week, and it was hard work. We talked to Jim secretly and told him about the plan, and he was really pleased.

We also wrote secret letters to everybody. Tom said that people always do this in books. We wrote that there was a gang of slave-thieves coming up from the south. They wanted to steal Jim and get the three hundred dollars from his owner. Well, the Phelpses and their friends got very excited, and on the night of the escape I went into the sitting-room, and there was a crowd of men in there—all with guns!

I ran and told Tom, and he said that this was really good. 'It's a real adventure now, all right,' he said, very excited. 'Perhaps they'll come after us, and shoot, and we'll all get killed!'

Well, there wasn't time to think about it because it all happened so quickly. We got Jim out through the hole under the wall, and began to run down to the river. But the men heard us and came after us. They began to shoot, and so we ran as fast as we could to the canoe. We got in it and went over to Spanish Island. My raft was there, and our plan was to escape on that and go on down river.

'Now, Jim,' I cried, 'you're a free man!' We were all very happy, but Tom was the happiest of all, because he had a bullet in his leg.

When Jim and I heard that, we weren't so happy. Tom wanted the adventure to go on, but Jim and I said that a doctor must look at Tom's leg. Tom was getting angry about this, but Jim said:

'You listen to me, Tom Sawyer. You say I'm a free man now, and perhaps I am. But old Jim is not going to run away and leave one of his friends with a bullet in his leg! So I'm staying right here until a doctor comes.'

I knew Jim would say that. He was a good, true friend, and you can't say that about many people.

Well, that was the end of the adventure, really. I went and found a doctor in the town. He was a kind old man, and he said he would go over to the island. But Tom's leg got very bad, and the next day the doctor and some other men carried Tom home to the Phelpses' house. They brought Jim too, and they locked him up in the hut again. But the doctor said, 'Be kind to him, because he didn't run away and he stayed to help me with the boy.'

They took Tom up to bed because his leg was really bad, and Aunt Sally sat with him while he slept. I didn't want to answer any questions so I kept out of everybody's way.

When Tom woke up the next day, he felt better. I was in the room and he said to me, 'Jim's all right, isn't he?'

I didn't know what to say because Aunt Sally was listening, and before I could stop him, Tom went on:

'We did it, Aunt Sally. Me and Tom here. We helped Jim escape.' He told her all about the digging and everything, and Aunt Sally's mouth was opening and closing like a fish. Then she got really angry with Tom.

'That slave is locked up again and he's going to stay there. And if I catch you again—'

Tom suddenly sat up in bed. 'You can't do that!' he cried. 'Jim was old Miss Watson's slave, but she died two months ago. Before she died, she wrote that she wanted Jim to be free, and not a slave any more. Jim's a free man, not a slave!'

Well, that was a surprise to me and Aunt Sally! She thought Tom was crazy. 'But Sid, why did you help him to escape, if he was free already?' she said.

'I wanted the adventure , of course!' said Tom. 'We made a really exciting plan and ... Oh my! . . . AUNT POLLY!'

We turned round, and there was Tom's Aunt Polly in the doorway! That was the second big surprise. Aunt Sally was really pleased to see her sister, and jumped up to put her arms round her. I got under the bed as fast as I could. There was trouble corning for me and Tom, that was for sure.

Then Aunt Polly said to Tom, 'You always were a terrible boy, Tom Sawyer, and I want to know—'

'But Polly dear,' said Aunt Sally, 'this isn't Tom. It's Sid. Tom was here a minute ago. Where is he?'

'Where's Huck Finn, you mean,' replied Aunt Polly. 'Come out from under that bed, Huck Finn.'

So Tom and I had to explain everything. Aunt Polly said that Aunt Sally wrote and told her that Tom and Sid were there. She knew that it wasn't true, so she decided to come and find out what was happening. But she said that it was true about Miss Watson and that Jim was a free man now.

We got Jim out of the hut and Aunt Sally and Uncle Silas were really nice to him. Later, Tom, Jim and I had a long talk by ourselves. Tom talked and talked, and then he said, 'Let's all three of us run away one night, and go and have ad ventures in the wild country down south.'

It sounded like a good plan to me. 'The only thing is,' I said, 'I haven't got any money to buy the right clothes and things. All my money back in St Petersburg will be in Pop's pockets by now.'

'No,' said Tom. 'Your money's all there. Your Pop never came back.'

'No, and he won't come back, Huck,' Jim said. 'You remember that dead man on the river, when I said “Don't look at his face”? Well, that was your Pop. You can get your money when you want.'

Tom's leg is almost better now, and I haven't got any more to write about. I'm really pleased about that because it was very difficult to write a book and I won't do it again. But I think I'm going to have to run away before the others, because Aunt Sally wants me to live with her. I'll have to sleep in a bed and wear clean clothes and learn to be good, and I can't do that again. I've done it once already.

The End　　　　

Yours Truly　　

Huck Finn

learn v. be told. 获悉；听说。

stay v. remain in a place. 停留；逗留。

for a bit for a short time. 短期。

bag n. container. 袋子；提包。

halfway adj. equal distance from two places. 中途的。

adventure n. unusual happening. 冒险的经历；冒险。

prisoner n. person kept in jail for crime. 囚犯。

dangerous adj. likely to cause danger. 危险的。

crazy adj. not knowing what you are doing. 疯狂的。

gang n. a group of people who sometimes do bad things together. 帮（尤指有犯罪企图者）。

owner n. the person something or someone belongs to. 主人。

shoot v. fire with a gun. 打（枪）。

bullet n. you fire this from a gun. 子弹。

free adj. not a slave. 自由的。

lock v. fasten a door. 锁。

dig v. make a hole by using a spade. 挖（洞）。

die v. come to the end of life. 死亡。

not... any more 不再。

already adv. by this time. 已经。

for sure certainly. 确实地。

explain v. make plain or clear. 解释。

sound v. give an impression. 听起来。

pocket n. small bag sewn into a clothing. 衣袋。

remember v. keep in the memory. 忆及；记得。





5 　使吉姆获得自由的计划


当我听到这话时，我差点儿没掉进地板缝里去，不过，这可是太幸运了。冒充汤姆·索亚对我来说是件容易事，因为，汤姆是我最好的朋友。他和他的弟弟锡德和他们的菠莉姨妈一起住在圣彼得斯堡，他们的事我都知道，现在，我知道了菠莉姨妈有一个妹妹，她是斐尔普斯太太。她和她的丈夫是汤姆的萨莉姨妈和赛拉斯姨夫。汤姆要乘船南下和他们小住一阵。

我们都坐在那儿聊着天，我可以回答所有的有关索亚家的问题。对此我感到很高兴。突然，我听到河上的船声。“汤姆可能在那条船上，”我想着，“他会走进这屋里来，我还来不及阻止他，他就会大声喊出我的名字。我得去迎他。”

于是，我告诉斐尔普斯一家，我要到镇子上的船站去取我的包。我急忙上路，还没走出一半路远，汤姆·索亚就沿路走来了。

他看见我时，嘴张着，脸色略微发白，“难道你没死？”他说道，“大家都说，你被杀死了！”

“我还没死呢，”我说道，“可你听着……”我对他讲了我的冒险，汤姆非常喜爱这一切。然后，我跟他讲了斐尔普斯一家的事，并告诉他，他们以为我是汤姆·索亚。“我们该怎么办呢？”我问他。

汤姆略加思索，然后说道：“我知道怎么办。你把我的包拿去，就说是你的。我大约半小时后到。”

“好吧，”我说，“可还有一件事。你知道老沃森小姐的奴隶吉姆吗？他逃走了。唉，他现在成了这儿的一个囚犯，我打算帮助他逃走。”

“吉姆？”汤姆说道，“可他是——”然后，他停下来思考了一下。“好吧，我也帮忙。我要制定一个很好的计划。”他看起来很兴奋。

于是，我拿着包回去了，汤姆半小时后来了。他敲了敲门，萨莉姨妈开门时，他说，他是锡德，汤姆的弟弟。他想使他的来访给他那亲爱的萨莉姨妈一个惊喜，他说道。

嘿，萨莉姨妈看见汤姆和 锡德真是高兴极了。她觉得这真是好极了。她和赛拉斯姨夫的确是很好的人。

我们俩单独在一起时，我和汤姆谈起了吉姆逃跑的事。我说，我有一个计划，汤姆听着我的计划。

“这是一个好计划，”我讲完后他说道，“可太容易了！得像个真正的逃跑，像故事书中的真正的冒险。所以，我们要让这冒险困难点，危险点。听听这个……”

于是，他告诉了我他的计划。我明白，这会是一个出色的计划，因为，汤姆的计划总是既疯狂又兴奋。

执行那计划肯定会给我们带来许多的乐趣！我们知道，吉姆被锁在屋外的一个小屋里。每天夜里，我们都从卧室的窗户钻出去，就在小屋墙下挖洞。挖洞花费了我们一星期的时间，这是一件苦差事。我们秘密地同吉姆交谈，并告诉他我们的计划，他高兴极了。

我们也给大家写密信。汤姆说，书中人们总是这样做。我们写道，有一群盗奴贼从南方来。他们想偷走吉姆，从他的主人那儿得到300美元。斐尔普斯一家和他们的朋友很兴奋，逃跑的那天夜里，我走进起居室，那儿有一大群男人——都拿着枪！

我跑去告诉了汤姆，他说，这真不错。“好吧，这是一次真正的冒险，”他说道，很兴奋，“或许他们会追我们，开枪，我们都会被打死！”

没有时间考虑了，因为，这一切发生得太快了。我们把吉姆从墙下的洞里弄出来，开始往河边跑去。但是，那些人听到了我们的声音，追了过来，他们开始开枪，我们尽快地往独木舟那儿跑去。我们上了独木舟，前往西班牙岛，我的木筏停在那儿，我们的计划就是逃到那岛上，然后继续顺流而下。

“嗨，吉姆，”我喊道，“你是一个自由之人了！”我们都很高兴，可汤姆是最高兴的一个，因为，他腿上中了一枪。

我和吉姆听到这话时，可不那么高兴了。汤姆想让这冒险继续下去，可我和吉姆说，一定要找个医生看看汤姆的腿。汤姆对此生气了，可吉姆说道：

“你听我说，汤姆·索亚。你说的，我现在是一个自由人了，或许我是。可老吉姆不会逃跑，而丢下一个腿里有颗子弹的朋友！所以，我就待在这儿，一直到医生来。”

我知道，吉姆会这样说的。他是一个真正的好朋友，对许多其他的人，你是不会这样说的。

说真的，这就是冒险的结束。我去到镇上找了个医生。他是个和蔼的老人，他说他会到岛上去。可汤姆腿的伤势很重，第二天，医生和其他的一些人把汤姆抬到斐尔普斯家。他们也带回了吉姆，他们又把他锁在木屋里。可医生说：“对他好点儿，因为他没逃跑，他留在那儿帮我照顾这个男孩。”

他们把汤姆放在床上，因为，他腿的伤势很重。他睡觉时，萨莉姨妈坐在他的身边。我不想回答任何问题，所以，我远远地躲开大家。

第二天，汤姆醒来时，他感觉好多了。我在他房间里，他对我说：“吉姆没事儿，是吧？”

我不知道说什么好，因为萨莉姨妈在听着，我还来不及阻止他，汤姆继续说道：

“这件事是我们干的，萨莉姨妈。是我和汤姆。我们帮助吉姆逃跑的。”他把挖洞和所有的一切都告诉了她，萨莉姨妈的嘴像条鱼一样一张一闭。然后，她真的生汤姆的气了。

“那个奴隶又被锁了起来，他要待在那儿。如果我再抓到你——”

汤姆突然在床上坐起来。“你不能那样做！”他喊道，“吉姆是老沃森小姐的奴隶，可她两个月前去世了。死前她写道，她要让吉姆自由，不再是一个奴隶了。吉姆是一个自由人，不再是一个奴隶！”

我和萨莉姨妈都感到很惊讶！她觉得汤姆疯了。“可是，锡德，如果他已经自由了，那你为什么还帮他逃跑呢？”她说道。

“当然，我想冒险 ！”汤姆说。“我们制定了一个很令人兴奋的计划，并且……呀，天哪！……菠莉姨妈！”

我们转过身来，汤姆的菠莉姨妈站在门那儿！这是第二个令人大吃一惊的事。萨莉姨妈见到她的姐姐的确很高兴，跳起来搂住了她。我赶快爬到床底下。我和汤姆要有麻烦了，这是肯定无疑的。

然后，菠莉姨妈对汤姆说道：“你总是捣乱，汤姆·索亚，我想知道——”

“可是，亲爱的菠莉，”萨莉姨妈说道，“这不是汤姆，是锡德。汤姆刚才还在这哪。他哪儿去了？’

“你是指哈克·费恩哪儿去了？”菠莉姨妈回答道，“从床底下出来，哈克·费恩。”

所以，我和汤姆不得不解释所有这一切。菠莉姨妈说，萨莉姨妈写信告诉她，汤姆和锡德在那儿。她知道这不是真的，于是，她决定来弄清楚到底是怎么回事。可她说，沃森小姐的事倒是真的，吉姆现在是一个自由人了。

我们把吉姆从小屋里放出来，萨莉姨妈和赛拉斯姨夫待他很友好。后来，汤姆、吉姆和我，就我们三个人，聊了很长时间。汤姆不停地说着，然后他说道：“有那么一天夜里，我们三个人逃走，到南方荒野的地方去冒险。”

听起来倒是一个不错的计划。“唯一的事情是，”我说道，“我没有钱买合适的衣服和物品。我所有的在圣彼得斯堡的钱这时应该在爸爸的兜里了。”

“不会的，”汤姆说道，“你的钱都在那儿。你爸爸从来没回来。”

“对了，他不会回来了，哈克，”吉姆说道，“你记得河上那个死人吗？我说别看他的脸，那就是你爸爸。你想拿到钱时，你就能拿到。”

汤姆的腿现在差不多好了，我没有什么要写的了。对此我很高兴，因为，写一本书很难，我不会再写了。可我想，在其他人逃跑之前，我得准备先逃走，因为萨莉姨妈想让我和她住在一起。我将不得不睡在床上，穿干净衣服，学着有教养，我不能再那样了。我已经尝试过一次了。

——完——　　　　

你的忠实的　　

哈克·费恩





Exercises


A Checking your understanding

Chapter 1 Who said these words? 　

Chapter 1

1 'Don't put your feet there, Huckleberry.'

2 'That's what they do in the stories in books.'

3 'Well, you can sell it to me, then.'

4 'You give me that money!'

Chapter 2 Where in this chapter ... 　

Chapter 2

1 ... did Huck's father lock him?

2 ... did Huck hide the canoe?

3 ... did Huck go to hide from everyone?

4 ... did Huck and Jim put all their things?

5 ... did they find the old clothes?

Chapter 3 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? 　

Chapter 3

1 The woman in the house knew about Huck's murder.

2 She said that old Finn now had all Huck's money.

3 When the steamboat hit the raft, it killed Jim.

4 Huck liked living on the raft better than living in a house.

Chapter 4 Write answers to these questions. 　

Chapter 4

1 Who was the old man?

2 Why didn't Huck and Jim like the two men?

3 How did Mr Phelps learn about Jim?

4 Who will get three hundred dollars and why?

5 Who did the Phelpses think Huck was?

Chapter 5 How much can you remember? Check your answers. 　

Chapter 5

1 How long did it take to dig the hole under the wall of the hut?

2 Where did Huck, Tom and Jim go to hide?

3 Why was Tom the happiest of them all?

4 Why did Tom help Jim to escape?

5 Why didn't Huck's father come back?

6 Why did Huck want to run away again?

B Working with language

1 Complete these sentences with in formation from the story. 　

1 Huck ran away from the widow because...

2 He escaped from the hut when...

3 Miss Watson wanted to sell Jim so...

4 Huck put on girl's clothes because...

5 Before the steamboat hit the raft, Huck and Jim...

6 Mrs Phelps was happy to see Huck because...

2 Use these words to join the sentences together. 　

but　because　when　and　then　so

1 Widow Douglas was kind. Huck ran away.

2 Huck found the canoe one morning. He went to catch some fish for breakfast.

3 There were no slaves in Ohio. Huck and Jim decided to go there.

4 The woman knew that Huck was there. The dogs made a noise.

5 Huck and Tom got Jim out of the hut. They ran down to the river.

C Activities

1 Which person did you like best in the story? Why? Write a few lines to describe that person.

2 You are Tom. Write a letter to your brother Sid in St Petersburg and tell him what happened after you met Huck near the Phelpses' house.

3 What do you think happens after the end of the story? Does Huck stay and live with Aunt Sally? Does he run away by himself, or with Tom and Jim? Does he buy a boat with his six thousand dollars and live on the river? Write another paragraph to describe what Huck does during the next year.

京权图字：01-2006-3294

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

阿利格拉之谜 = The Mystery of Allegra／（英）福尔曼（Foreman, P.）著；李晶华译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6820-6

Ⅰ．阿…　Ⅱ．①福…②李…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②短篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第104932号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年8月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6820-6

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


她5岁零3个月，穿着白色的长睡裙，有一头金发，大大的眼睛像意大利夏日的天空一样湛蓝，声音温柔而甜美。她想要阿德里安带她去找远方的妈妈。

阿德里安放假了，正与父母一同在意大利旅行。一天晚上，他们来到亨德森庄园，决定在此过夜。深夜醒来，阿德里安发现房间里有一个小女孩，她叫阿利格拉，长着蓝色的大眼睛，小手冰凉。阿德里安先是大吃一惊，然后他记起来女主人基娅拉·亨德森说过自己有一个小女儿。可阿利格拉为什么说她妈妈在很远的地方呢？而且阿德里安卧室的门是锁着的，阿利格拉是怎么进来的呢？

阿德里安疑惑不解，决定第二天一早去向阿利格拉的母亲问个究竟，可是，等待他的却是更大的谜团……





THE MYSTERY OF ALLEGRA


She is five years and three months old. She wears a long white nightdress and she has blond hair and big eyes, as blue as an Italian sky in summer. Her voice is soft and sweet, and she wants Adrian to take her to her Mamà, who is a long way away.

Adrian is on holiday, travelling in Italy with his parents. Late one evening they find the Villa Henderson and decide to take rooms there for the night. But Adrian wakes in the middle of the night to find Allegra in his room, with her big blue eyes and cold little hands. At first Adrian is very surprised, then he remembers that Chiara Henderson said she had a little daughter. But why does Allegra say that her mother is a long way away? And Adrian's bedroom door is locked, so how did Allegra get into his room?

Adrian does not understand. He decides to ask Allegra's mother in the morning. But in the morning he has a very big surprise...





1Allegra One


Allegra One

I met Allegra one night in April twelve years ago. I was sixteen years old and she was only five.

I remember that it rained a lot that night and we arrived late at the house. We were driving along a dark road when my mother saw a sign, which said in big letters: Villa Henderson—Bed and Breakfast.

'It's in English!' my mother said. She was surprised because we were on holiday in Italy.

My father turned right and drove along an old road. When we arrived, we saw a big villa with tall black trees around it. There was a light in one of the windows, and on the wall above the door were the words Villa Henderson.

My father knocked at the door and a small woman opened it. She was about sixty and wore strange clothes.

'Are you English?' my father asked.

'Yes, I am,' she answered in a quiet voice.

'We're looking for rooms for the night. Can we stay here?'

'Please come in.'

We went into a long, comfortable room. There was a bright fire in the old fireplace, which gave a beautiful, warm light.

'The weather is very bad,' said the woman. 'It's cold for April. I'll make some tea for you.'

When she went out, we looked around the room. There were lots of English tables and chairs in dark wood, and the walls and floor were of stone. There were two big armchairs in front of the fire and a large black dog was sleeping in one of them.

'I like this room,' said my mother. 'It looks comfortable, but it's beautiful too.'

Just then the woman returned with the tea. Behind her came a woman in a long black dress.

'My name is Margaret Henderson,' said the old woman, 'and this is my daughter Chiara. She has a daughter too, so I'm a grandmother.'

'My daughter is in bed,' smiled Chiara.

She was a tall woman, with long, fair hair and blue eyes. She was perhaps about thirty-five.

'Have you come far today?' she asked.

'Yes,' my father replied. 'We're very tired.'

'Your rooms are ready for you. I'll take you up when you've had your tea.'

So, after tea, we went up some stairs and followed Chiara along a corridor. She stopped at a door and told my parents that it was their room. Then she looked at me.

'Your room is round the corner. Come this way, please.'

We turned right and walked along another corridor. My room was at the end.

'Good night and sleep well,' said Chiara with a smile.

But I didn't sleep well.

I locked the door and after five minutes I was in bed. The house was silent, but I could hear the rain on the window and the strong wind in the trees outside. I slept a little, woke up, then slept again. And then I woke up suddenly. The window shutters were making a loud noise against the wall. I could see that the window was open because the long white curtains were moving in the wind. I got up and closed both the shutters and the window. Now the room was very dark, so I walked with my hands out in front of me, to try and find the light on the table by the bed. My left hand touched the table — and then something took hold of my right arm.

It was a cold little hand. The hair on my neck stood up and my legs began to shake.

'Who is it?' I cried.

At the same time I found the light on the table and turned it on. A little girl in a long white nightdress stood in front of me near the bed. She was looking at me with big eyes, as blue as an Italian sky in summer. Her blond hair was as bright as sunlight round her pale face.

'What a beautiful child!' I thought.

'Hallo. My name's Allegra,' she said.

Her voice was soft and sweet and she spoke English beautifully. But she couldn't say the letter 'r'.

'Did you come in through the window?' I asked.

But she answered me with a question. 'What's your name?'

'Adrian.'

'I'm five years and three months old,' she said. 'How old are you?'

'Sixteen. How did you get in here?'

'Don't be angry with me, Adrian,' she said.

'I'm not angry with you. Don't cry. Tell me your name again.'

'Allegra. It means happy in Italian.'

'What are you doing here, Allegra? What do you want?'

'Will you take me to my Mamà?' she asked suddenly.

I looked at her in surprise. 'But you know where your mother is,' I said.

'Yes, but she's a long way from here.'

'No, she isn't, Allegra. She's in this house.'

'I want to see Mamà. Will you take me, please?'

'No, Allegra. She'll be angry with you because you aren't in bed.'

'Oh no, Mamà was never angry with me,' she said with a little smile. 'But sometimes Papà was angry and I was afraid of him.'

For a while I didn't speak, and I just looked at her. Why did she say 'was' and not 'is' when she spoke about her parents? She was a very strange little girl.

'You must go back to bed now, Allegra,' I said. 'I'm not going to take you to your mother.'

She looked at me, and now her blue eyes were sad.

'Will you take me to Mamà tomorrow then?'

'Yes.'

'Oh, thank you!' she cried happily.

'Now, where is your room?'

'It's next to this one.'

'Okay, let's go.'

And I took her hand, her cold little hand. Just then the window opened again and the wind and rain came in. I went to the window to close it but the curtains flew up in my face and I couldn't see anything. I closed the window. And when I turned round, Allegra wasn't there.

For a minute I just stood still. Then I unlocked my door and went along the corridor. There was a door on the left. I opened it slowly. The room was dark but I could see that it was a child's room. Somebody was sleeping in a bed near the window.

'Good!' I thought. 'She's in bed now.' And I closed the door.

Next morning, after breakfast, we went into the garden. There were beautiful hills and woods around it. I walked round to the back of the house because I wanted to look at the windows of my room and Allegra's room. There was a big tree between them near the wall of the house.

'Perhaps she got out of her window on to the tree, and then got in through my window,' I thought. But it looked a difficult and dangerous thing to do. Possible for an adult perhaps, but not for a girl of five.

When I went back to the front garden, Allegra's mother was there. She was talking to my parents.

'Did your shutters open last night?' she asked. 'I heard a noise.'

'No,' replied my mother. 'But we heard a noise too.'

'It was the shutters in my room,' I said.

'Oh, I'm sorry,' said Chiara. 'Those shutters are very old. But I hope you slept well after you closed them.'

'Shall I tell her?' I thought. Then I said with a smile, 'Yes, I slept well, thank you — but only after your daughter's visit.'

'Allegra?' Chiara was very surprised.

'Yes, she came to my room in the middle of the night.'

'Did she? Well, I know she sometimes walks in her sleep.'

'But...' I began. And I stopped. Again I thought: 'Shall I tell her?'

But I decided not to say that the door was locked. I knew they wouldn't believe me, and I thought that they would laugh at me. So I just said that Allegra was a beautiful child.

'Yes, she is,' Chiara answered. 'But she isn't a very happy girl.'

'Doesn't her name mean happy in Italian?'

'Yes, but I've never met an Italian child called Allegra.'

'Why did you call her Allegra?' my mother asked.

'I don't know. The name came to me suddenly. Perhaps I wanted a happy child.' And Chiara smiled sadly.

Then she turned to the house and called her daughter.

'Allegra! Come downstairs, please!'

'I'm coming!' came a shout from the house.

We heard Allegra on the stairs; then she came out. I looked at her. I looked and looked. But I couldn't believe my eyes.

villa n. a big country house with large gardens 别墅

villa

bed and breakfast (a private house or small hotel that provides) a place to sleep for the night and breakfast the next morning 提供住宿和次日早餐（的私人住家）

bed and breakfast

fireplace n. the opening in the wall of a room, used for a wood or coal fire to heat the room 壁炉

fireplace

armchair n. a comfortable chair with sides that you can rest your arms on 扶手椅

armchair

tired adj. feeling that you want to deep or rest 疲倦的

tired

corridor n. a long, narrow passage between two rows of rooms in a building 通道；走廊

corridor

shutter n. [usu. pl. ] one of a pair of wood or metal covers that can be unfolded in front of the outside of a window to block the view or keep out the light 百叶窗

shutter

curtain n. a piece of hanging cloth that can be pulled across to cover a window or door 窗帘

curtain

touch v. to put your hand or another part of your body on something or someone so that you can feel them 触到，摸到

touch

nightdress n. a piece of clothing, like a thin dress, that women wear in bed 女睡裙

nightdress

pale adj. (of a person's face or skin ) having less than the usual amount of colour （人的脸色或皮肤）苍白的

pale

sweet adj. (of sound ) pleasant to listen to 悦耳的，甜美的

sweet

unlock v. to unfasten the lock on a door, box etc. 开……的锁

unlock

dangerous adj. able or likely to cause danger 危险的

dangerous

possible adj. able to be done or likely to happen or exist 可能的

possible

adult n. a fully-grown person 成年人

adult





1． 　阿利格拉一


初遇阿利格拉是12年前4月的一个晚上，那时我16岁，她只有5岁。

记得那天晚上下着大雨，我们很晚才到达住宿的地方。我们的车沿着漆黑的路行驶，妈妈看见一块标牌，上面写着大大的字：亨德森庄园——住宿加早餐。

“是英语！”妈妈惊喜地说。要知道那时我们可是在意大利度假啊。

爸爸开车右转，将车开到了一条旧路上。到了门前，我们看到一座很大的乡村别墅，四周环绕着高大阴森的树木。有一个窗口还亮着灯，正门上方的墙上刻着“亨德森庄园”。

爸爸敲了敲门，开门的是一位瘦小的妇人，60岁上下，穿着怪异。

“您是英国人吗？”爸爸问道。

“是的。”她平静地回答道。

“我们正在找住宿的地方。今晚我们能在这儿过夜吗？”

“请进吧。”

我们走进一间长长的、舒适的房间。古旧的壁炉里火烧得很旺，发出美丽、温暖的光。

“天气太糟了，”老妇人说，“4月份可不该这么冷。我这就去给你们沏些茶。”

她离开后，我们开始打量这房间。房间里摆放了许多深色的英式木制桌椅，墙壁和地面都是石头的。壁炉前有两张大扶手椅，其中一张椅子上睡着一条黑色的大狗。

“我喜欢这房间，”妈妈说，“看上去既舒适又漂亮。”

这时老妇人端着茶回来了，后面还跟着一位身着黑色长裙的女士。

“我叫玛格丽特·亨德森，”老妇人说，“这是我的女儿基娅拉，她也有个女儿，所以我已经做外婆了。”

“我女儿已经睡了。”基娅拉微笑着说。基娅拉身材高挑，有一头金色的长发和一双蓝色的眼睛，大概35岁上下。

“你们今天走了很远的路吧？”她问道。

“是啊，”爸爸回答说，“我们现在都精疲力尽了。”

“你们的房间已经准备好了。喝过茶后我就带你们上去。”

我们喝完了茶，便跟随基娅拉上楼，来到走廊里。她在一扇门前停下来，告诉我的父母那是他们的房间。然后，她看着我说道：“你的房间在拐角处，请这边走。”

我们向右拐进另一条走廊。我的房间在走廊的尽头。

基娅拉微笑着说：“晚安，睡个好觉。”

可是那一夜我却无法安睡……

我锁好了房门，5分钟后便上床休息了。房子里很安静，但是我能听到打在窗上的雨声和窗外树木在风中摇曳的声音。我睡了一小会儿，醒了，然后又睡着了。突然，我被惊醒了。百叶窗正撞击着墙面，发出很大的声响。我看见窗户开了，长长的白色窗帘被风吹得舞动起来。我起身关上了窗户和百叶窗。此时，屋子里一片漆黑，我只能伸出双手试探着移动，想要找到床边桌上的台灯。我的左手摸到了桌子——可就在这一刻我的右臂被什么东西抓住了。

那是一只冰冷的小手。我吓得毛骨悚然，双腿战栗。

“是谁？”我叫出声来。

这时我摸到了桌上的台灯，立刻打开了灯。在床边，一个穿着长长的白色睡裙的小女孩正站在我面前。她看着我，大大的眼睛像意大利夏日的天空一样湛蓝，金色的头发披散在苍白的面孔旁，如阳光般灿烂。

“多漂亮的孩子啊！”我暗自感叹。

“你好，我叫阿利格拉。”她说。

她的声音甜美、轻柔，英语说得很好听。但是她不会发字母“r”的音。

“你是从窗户进来的吗？”我问道。

她没有回答，而是反问我：“你叫什么名字？”

“阿德里安。”

“我5岁零3个月，”她说，“你多大？”

“16岁。你是怎么进来的？”

“不要生我的气，阿德里安。”她说。

“我没有生你的气，别哭。再告诉我一遍你的名字好吗？”

“阿利格拉，在意大利语中是‘快乐’的意思。”

“阿利格拉，你为什么到这儿来？你想要干什么呢？”

“你能带我去找妈妈吗？”她突然问道。

我惊讶地看着她说：“可是你知道你妈妈在哪儿呀。”

“是的，但是她在很远的地方。”

“不对，阿利格拉，她就在这座房子里。”

“我想见妈妈。求求你，带我去行吗。”

“不行，阿利格拉。如果你不回到床上睡觉，她会生气的。”

“噢，不会的，妈妈以前从不生我的气，”她说，脸上露出了一丝笑容，“可爸爸有时会生气，那时我很怕他。”

那一刻我没有说话，只是不解地看着她。为什么她讲到父母的时候要说“以前”，而不是“现在”？真是个奇怪的小女孩。

“阿利格拉，现在你该回去睡觉了，”我说，“我不能带你去找妈妈。”

她望着我，蓝色的眼睛里流露出忧伤的神色。

“那你明天带我去好吗？”

“好的。”

“啊，谢谢你！”她高兴地叫起来。

“现在告诉我，你的房间在哪儿？”

“就在隔壁。”

“好，我们走吧。”

我牵起她冰冷的小手。就在这时，窗户又被吹开了，瞬时间大风夹着雨点刮了进来。我走过去关窗，可是窗帘被风吹起来罩在我的脸上，遮住了视线。当我把窗子关好后，转过身来，发现阿利格拉已经不见了。

我呆呆地站了一会，然后打开房门，来到走廊里。左侧有一扇门，我慢慢地将它打开。房间里很黑，但看得出那是一间儿童房。在窗子旁边的床上睡着一个人。

“太好了！”我心想，“她已经睡了。”我关上了门。

第二天早晨，吃过早餐，我们来到花园里。花园被青山碧树环绕着，景色优美我绕到房子的后面，想去察看我的房间和阿利格拉房间的窗户。我发现，在两扇窗之间靠墙的地方有一棵大树。

“也许她从自己房间的窗口爬到树上，又从窗户进了我的房间。”我暗自猜测。不过这么做既困难又危险，成人也许做得到，而对一个5岁的小女孩来说则有些不可思议。

我回到前面的花园时，阿利格拉的妈妈也在那儿，正和我父母聊天。

“昨晚你们房间的百叶窗开了吗？”她问，“我听到了声响。”

“没有，”我妈妈答道，“不过我们也听到了声音。”

“是我房间的百叶窗开了。”我说。

“哦，真抱歉，”基娅拉说，“那些百叶窗太旧了。但愿你在关上窗子以后睡了个安稳觉。”

“该告诉她吗？”我寻思着。然后我笑着说：“是啊，谢谢您，我睡得很好——不过是在您的女儿去过之后。”

“阿利格拉？”基娅拉非常诧异。

“是的，她昨天半夜来过我的房间。”

“是吗？嗯，我知道她有时会梦游。”

“只是……”我欲言又止，再次思量起来：“该告诉她吗？”

最终我决定隐瞒我的疑虑——昨夜门是锁着的。我知道他们不会相信我，恐怕还会嘲笑我。所以我只称赞阿利格拉是个美丽的女孩。

“是啊，”基娅拉应道，“但她却不是个快乐的孩子。”

“她的名字在意大利语中不正是‘快乐’的意思吗？”

“不错，可我从没见过其他名叫阿利格拉的意大利孩子。”

“那你为什么给她起了阿利格拉这个名字？”我妈妈问。

“不知道，只是突然就想到了，也许是想有个快乐的孩子吧。”说到这儿，基娅拉露出了苦涩的笑容。

然后她转身朝房子的方向呼喊女儿：“阿利格拉，下楼来，好吗？”

“来了！”从房子里传来喊声。

我们听见了阿利格拉下楼的声音，然后她出现了。我目不转睛地盯着她，不敢相信自己的眼睛。





2Allegra Two


Allegra Two

She was pale and beautiful, like the girl in my room. But this was a different girl. This Allegra had long black hair and her eyes were brown.

'Hallo,' she said.

Was it the same voice? It was soft and sweet but — I wasn't sure!

'This is Adrian,' said Chiara. 'He says that you went into his room last night, Allegra.'

The girl looked at me in surprise.

'No, Mummy, I wasn't in his room.' She spoke English beautifully, but she couldn't say the letter 'r'!

'You see, she doesn't remember,' Chiara said to me. 'I think that she was walking in her sleep again.'

When I went to bed that night, I couldn't sleep. I was waiting for the girl and I was afraid. But after about an hour my eyes closed and I slept. I woke up suddenly when a cold little hand touched my face. The girl's voice spoke softly in my ear.

'Wake up, Adrian, wake up...'

I turned on the light. She was there; but was she real? Her skin was like milk, her blond hair was like sunlight in the room. She was wearing the long, white nightdress.

'Is she real or is this a dream?' I thought.

And I touched her face. It was cold, very cold. But it was real.

'Will you take me to Mamà now?' she asked.

I looked at the window. It was closed. Then I went to the door. It was locked. I began to feel very afraid.

'How did you get in here?' I asked.

'You weren't here so I waited for you. I was sleeping behind that curtain.'

She showed me a curtain in a corner of the room. There was another, smaller bed for a child behind it. So she was in the room before I came! But where did she come from, and who was her mother?

'Okay, I'll take you to your mother,' I said. 'Where is she?'

Suddenly the girl began to speak in Italian. 'She's at Bagno a Ripoli, near Florence.'

'But we can't go to Florence tonight!' I said. I could understand Italian, but I spoke in English.

'You must take me!' Allegra said angrily, speaking in English again. 'I want to see my Mamà tonight. I want to see her before I die.' Then she began to cry.

Die! What did she mean?

'Why do you say that?' I said in surprise. 'You're not going to die.'

'Yes, I am. I know, I know! Papà didn't like Mamà and he took me away from her. I didn't see her for a long time. I wanted to see her and she wanted to see me too. Oh, I must see her before I die!'

Again I couldn't understand why she spoke in the past. I really couldn't understand anything! Was this all a little girl's fantasy? I decided to ask her some questions.

'Who is your mother? What is her name?'

'Claire.'

Claire was the English for Chiara. I thought for a second.

'Come with me, Allegra,' I said. 'We'll go downstairs.'

I wanted to show this little girl to Chiara. Then she would know that her daughter wasn't walking in her sleep — and I would know that I wasn't dreaming! I took the girl's cold little hand but she wouldn't come.

'No, no!' she cried in Italian again. 'My dear Mamà is at Bagno a Ripoli near Florence. I want to go there.'

I said, 'Wait here, Allegra. I'll go downstairs and bring my friend. She wants to see you. Wait here.'

I found Chiara in the long room. She was reading a book in an armchair by the fire. I told her that there was a girl in my room again. She looked surprised and followed me upstairs. We went along the corridor. My door was open and we went into the room. The child wasn't there.

We looked everywhere but found nothing. The only child in the house was Chiara's daughter.

'She's sleeping in her bed,' Chiara told me. 'Perhaps you had a dream, Adrian.'

'No, it wasn't a dream! There was a girl in my room a few minutes ago. I saw her and talked to her.'

Then I told Chiara everything about the girl. When I finished, she said:

'Well, it's very strange. Who is this girl? She isn't my daughter. My Allegra has got black hair and brown eyes. And my husband didn't take her away from me. I know that he wants to take her away, but he can't. Allegra lives with me. You see, I don't love my husband any more, and so he doesn't live here with us. He's in England. But Allegra likes him a lot and I know that she wants to see him.' She was silent for a minute, then said, 'So the child in your room wants to see her mother, and Allegra wants to see her father. It's strange, isn't it? I don't understand it.'

Next day I went for a walk with Allegra Henderson. The big black dog came with us. We walked down a hill and came to a little river with a bridge. We stood on the bridge while Allegra dropped stones into the water and the dog tried to find them.

'Do you speak Italian, Allegra?' I asked.

'Oh yes! Listen.' And she spoke fast in Italian.

'Did you learn it at school?'

'Yes. It's a convent school and the teachers are Italian nuns. Look, Nero has got a stone in his mouth! Isn't he clever? Come here, Nero!'

'Allegra, do you know a place called Bagno a Ripoli?'

'No, I don't. Oh, don't shake the water over us, Nero — you bad boy!'

'Do you know anybody called Claire?'

'Yes, of course! That's Mummy's name in English.'

Allegra laughed. But she didn't laugh when I asked:

'Where's your Daddy, Allegra?'

She didn't answer me.

'You're a bad boy, Nero!' she said angrily. 'Give me that stone!'

I asked her the question again. This time she answered.

'Mummy says he's in England.'

Was she sad or angry? I didn't know.

'Do you want to see him?'

'Yes,' she said. And I saw that she was unhappy. She didn't want to talk about it.

'Why can't you see him?' I asked.

'Because Mummy says that he wants to take me away from her.'

'Would you like to go away with your Daddy?'

She looked at me for a second; then suddenly she began to cry.

'I want to see my Daddy!' she cried, sad and angry at the same time. 'I want to see him before I die! Why doesn't he come?'

And then she ran away. She ran fast up the hill and Nero ran behind her.

My parents liked the villa so we stayed there for a week. But I wanted to go. I was afraid. Every night the blond Allegra came to my room in her long white nightdress, and asked me to take her to her Mamà. When I said no, she was always very angry with me.

And every day I talked and played with the dark-haired Allegra, Chiara's daughter. I liked her a lot and she liked me. We were good friends. But she was like two different people. Sometimes she spoke to me angrily, like the other Allegra in the night. At other times she was a happy, sweet little girl of five again. I often asked her why she thought that she was going to die. She always answered with the same words: 'I know, I know.'

During that week's holiday I began to feel love for Allegra Henderson. But there was the other Allegra who came at night. Who was she? I didn't believe in ghosts, but I was beginning to think that she was a ghost.

The day before we left, I wrote some notes:

ALLEGRA HENDERSON

— 5 years old. Tall, black hair, brown eyes, pale.

— Speaks English and Italian,but can't say 'r'.

— Mother's name Chiara. Calls her 'Mummy'.

— Wants to see her father, who lives in England.

— Thinks she is going to die.

ALLEGRA THE GHOST

— 5 years old. Tall, blond hair, blue eyes, pale.

— Speaks English and Italian, but can't say 'r'.

— Mother's name Claire and lives at Bagno a Ripoli near Florence. Calls her 'Mamà'.

— Wants to see her mother, but her father says no.

— Thinks she is going to die.

I read these notes lots of times, but they didn't help me. Then I saw that I didn't know anything about the ghost Allegra's father. So I decided to ask her that night, which was our last night at the villa. I didn't sleep much that night; I waited and waited. But she didn't come. No, she didn't come and I was angry! I felt sure that her father was important.

Next morning we said goodbye to the Hendersons. When I said goodbye to Allegra, I felt sad. She was sad too, and she gave me a kiss.

'I hope that one day you will see your Daddy,' I said to her. 'Then you'll be happy.'

'Oh no,' she answered in a strange voice. 'Papà is dead now. He was a famous lord and he took me away from my Mamà. But he's dead now.'

We were all very surprised.

'What are you saying, Allegra?' Chiara said. 'Your father isn't a lord and he isn't dead! What a strange fantasy!'

But Allegra only smiled; a sad smile. And that was the last time I saw her.

real adj. actually existing and not just imagined 实际存在的

real

dream n. a series of thoughts, images, and feelings that you experience when you are asleep 梦

dream

die v. (of people ) to stop living （人）死亡

die

fantasy n. an idea or belief that is based only on imagination, not on real facts 幻想

fantasy

husband n. the man that a woman is married to 丈夫

husband

drop v. to fall or let fall （使）落下

drop

convent school a school for girls that is run by Roman Catholic nuns 女修道院学校

convent school

ghost n. the spirit of a dead person that some people think they can feel or see in a place 鬼，幽灵

ghost

note n. something that is written down to remind you of something you need to do, say, or remember 笔记，记录

note

important adj. which matters a lot 重要的

important

famous adj. known about and talked about by many people in many places 出名的

famous

lord n. a man who has a rank in the aristocracy, especially in Britain, or his title （尤指英国的）贵族（头衔）

lord





2． 　阿利格拉二


她很漂亮，肤色有些苍白，很像去我房间的女孩，但却不是同一个人。眼前的这个阿利格拉长着黑色的长发，眼睛是棕色的。

“你们好。”她问候道。

这是一样的声音吗？同样的轻柔、甜美，可是——我无法确定！

“这是阿德里安，”基娅拉说，“阿利格拉，他说你昨晚去过他的房间。”

小女孩吃惊地看着我。

“没有，妈妈，我没去过他的房间。”她英语说得很好听，但不会说字母“r”！

“瞧，她不记得了，”基娅拉对我说，“我想她一定是又梦游了。”

那天晚上上床以后，我无法入睡，在恐惧之中等待着那个女孩的出现。可是过了一个小时左右，我便支撑不住，睡着了。突然，一只冰冷的小手摸到了我的脸，我惊醒了。耳边响起小女孩轻声的呼唤。

“醒醒，阿德里安，醒醒……”

我打开灯，她就站在那儿，可这是真的吗？她的皮肤看上去像牛奶般光滑、白皙，金发如同射入房间里的一道阳光。她依然穿着长长的白色睡裙。

“这一切是真的？还是做梦？”我思忖着。

我用手摸她的脸，冰冷冰冷的，但却是真切的。

“现在你带我去找妈妈好吗？”她问道。我看了看窗户，是关着的。然后我去检查房门，是锁着的。我开始感到害怕了。

“你是怎么进来的？”我问她。

“你不在房间里，我只好在这儿等你，我就睡在那个帘子后面。”

她指给我看房间角落里的一道帘子，那后面放着一张孩子的小床。原来我进来之前她就在房间里！可是她从哪儿来？她的妈妈又是谁呢？

“好吧，我带你去找妈妈，”我说，“她在哪儿？”

这时她忽然改用意大利语说：“她在佛罗伦萨附近的巴尼奥阿里波。”

“今晚我们可没法去佛罗伦萨！”我说。我能听懂意大利语，但还是用英语回答她。

“你一定 要带我去！”阿利格拉用英语气呼呼地说，“今晚我就要见到妈妈。我要在死之前见到她。”说完，她哭了起来。

死！她是什么意思？

“你为什么这么说？”我吃惊地问，“你不会死的。”

“不，我会死，我知道，我知道的！爸爸从前不喜欢妈妈，还把我从妈妈身边带走。很长时间我都见不到妈妈。那时我想见妈妈，妈妈也想见我。哦，我一定要在死以前见到她！”

我又产生了疑虑，为什么她总是谈论“从前”呢？我真是一点儿都不明白。这些会不会只是一个小女孩的幻想呢？我决定向她问问清楚。

“你妈妈是谁？她叫什么名字？”

“克莱尔。”

克莱尔正是基娅拉的英文说法。我想了一下。

“跟我来，阿利格拉，”我说，“我们下楼去。”

我想带这个小女孩去见基娅拉，那样她就会知道她的女儿不是在梦游，而我 也可以证明自己不是在做梦了！我拉起女孩冰冷的小手，可是她不愿意去。

“不，不要！”她又用意大利语喊道，“我妈妈是在佛罗伦萨附近的巴尼奥阿里波，我要去那儿。”

我说：“在这儿等我，阿利格拉。我去楼下找我的朋友，她想见你。等着我。”

在那间长长的屋子里我找到了基娅拉。她正坐在壁炉旁的椅子上看书。我告诉她有个女孩又去了我的房间。她很惊讶，便跟我一起上楼来。我们穿过走廊，我的房门开着，我们走进房间，那女孩已经不在了。

我们四处察看，但都没有找到那个女孩。这座房子里唯一的孩子就是基娅拉的女儿。

“她正在自己的床上睡觉，”基娅拉对我说，“阿德里安，也许你做了个梦。”

“不，不是梦！就在几分钟前有个女孩在我房间里。我看到她了，还和她说话了。”

然后，我把那女孩的事都告诉了基娅拉。听完以后，她说：

“啊，这的确令人费解。那个女孩是谁呢？她不是我女儿。我的女儿阿利格拉是黑色头发、棕色眼睛，我丈夫也没有把她从我身边带走。我知道他想那么做，但是他不能。阿利格拉和我一起生活。你瞧，我丈夫和我不再相爱，所以他不和我们住在一起，他在英国。但是阿利格拉很爱他，我知道她希望见到他。”她沉默了一会儿，然后接着说：“来你房间的女孩想见妈妈，而阿利格拉想见爸爸。很奇怪，不是吗？我想不明白。”

第二天，我同阿利格拉·亨德森一起去散步，身后跟着那只大黑狗。我们走下一座小山，来到一条小河旁，河上有一座桥。站在桥上，阿利格拉向水中丢石子，让她的狗去找。

“阿利格拉，你会说意大利语吗？”我问。

“会啊，你听。”接着她就快速地讲起意大利语来。

“你是在学校学的吗？”

“是的，是一所女修道院学校，老师都是意大利修女。瞧，尼罗嘴里叼着块石头！它很聪明吧？过来，尼罗！”

“阿利格拉，你知道一个叫巴尼奥阿里波的地方吗？”

“不知道。哦，别把水甩到我们身上，尼罗，你这个坏家伙！”

“你认识叫克莱尔的人吗？”

“当然啦！那是妈妈的英文名字。”

阿利格拉笑起来，但是当听到下一个问题时她的笑容消失了。

“你爸爸在哪儿，阿利格拉？”

她没有回答。

“你是个坏家伙，尼罗！”她生气地说，“给我那块石头！”

我又问了一遍，这次她回答了。

“妈妈说他在英国。”

她感到忧伤还是生气？我猜不出来。

“你想见他吗？”

“是的。”她说。我看得出她很不开心，不愿意谈这个。

“你为什么不能见他呢？”我问。

“因为妈妈说他想把我从妈妈身边带走。”

“你愿意跟爸爸走吗？”

她盯着我，然后突然哭了起来。

“我想见爸爸！”她喊道，既悲伤又愤怒。“我想在我死之前见到他！他为什么不来呢？”

说完她就跑开了。她飞快地向山上跑去，尼罗紧跟在她后面。

我的父母很喜欢这座乡间别墅，所以我们在那儿住了一周。但是我盼着离开，因为我害怕。每天夜里那个金发的阿利格拉都会出现在我房里，依旧穿着她的白色长睡裙，央求我带她去找妈妈。当我拒绝时，她就会变得很生气。

而在白天，我总是和黑发的阿利格拉——基娅拉的女儿——一同聊天、玩耍。我很喜欢她，她也喜欢我。我们成了好朋友。但是，阿利格拉表现得就像两个截然不同的人一样。有时她会带着怒气跟我说话，就像在夜里现身的那个阿利格拉；有时她又重新成为一个快乐可爱的5岁女孩。我常常问她为什么认为自己会死，她每次的回答都是相同的：“我知道，我就是知道。”

在那一周的时间里，我同阿利格拉·亨德森的感情愈来愈深，同时也为另外那个在夜里出现的阿利格拉所困扰。她到底是谁呢？我不相信有幽灵，却禁不住开始觉得她就是 个幽灵。

在离开的前一天，我做了些记录：

阿利格拉·亨德森：

·5岁，高个儿，黑发，棕色的眼睛，皮肤苍白。

·会说英语和意大利语，但是不会发字母“r”的音。

·妈妈的名字是基娅拉，称妈妈为“Mummy”。

·爸爸住在英国，想要见爸爸。

·认为自己要死了。

幽灵阿利格拉：

·5岁，高个儿，金发，蓝色的眼睛，皮肤苍白。

·会说英语和意大利语，但是不会发字母“r”的音。

·妈妈的名字是克莱尔，住在佛罗伦萨附近的巴尼奥阿里波，称妈妈为“Mamà”。

·想要见妈妈，但爸爸不允许。

·认为自己要死了。

我反复地看这些笔记，却无法从中理出头绪。不过，我发现自己对幽灵阿利格拉的爸爸一无所知，于是决定当晚问问她。这是我们在别墅的最后一夜，我几乎没怎么合眼，一直等着她。但是她没有来。是的，她没有出现，这让我非常恼火。我确信她的爸爸是个关键人物。

第二天上午，我们向亨德森一家辞行。同阿利格拉告别时，我有些难过，她也很伤心，还亲了我一下。

“希望有一天你能见到爸爸，”我对她说，“那样你就会开心了。”

“哦，不，”她说，声音很奇怪，“爸爸已经死了。过去他是很有名的勋爵，他把我从妈妈身边带走。但现在他已经死了。”

我们都惊呆了。

“你在说什么啊，阿利格拉？”基娅拉说，“你爸爸不是勋爵，他也没有死！真是胡言乱语！”

但是，阿利格拉没作声，只是笑了，是忧伤的笑。那是我最后一次见到她。





3Allegra Three


Allegra Three

In England I went back to school and my studies, but I didn't forget Allegra. I wrote letters to her and sent some small presents. She didn't answer my letters but I said to myself, 'Well, she's only five. Perhaps she can't write letters yet.'

Then a year after our holiday in Italy a letter arrived from Margaret Henderson. First she thanked me for my letters and presents. Then she wrote:

I'm sorry that we didn't write to you, but it has been a very bad year for us. It is difficult for me to write now, but today is April 21st and I want to tell you that something terrible happened on the same day last year. Chiara and I are still very sad, and Chiara has been ill. She doesn't eat much and she doesn't want to speak to anybody. Now I'll tell you why. A week after your holiday our little Allegra got a fever. A few days later the fever was worse and we called the doctor. He said that he wasn't sure what the fever was. 'Perhaps she drank some bad water or ate food that was bad,' he told us. He gave her some medicine and she was better. But then the fever returned very quickly. We couldn't find the doctor and when he arrived, it was too late. Our dear little Allegra died on April 21st a year ago. Oh, it's like a terrible dream! Our darling child was only five years and three months old. Now she has gone and she will never come back to us!

When I read this, I was shocked. Allegra dead! I felt very sad and I began to cry. For a long time I just couldn't believe it. I remembered her face, her voice, and her child's talk. I remembered our games and our conversations. Allegra came back to me like a ghost and I was very unhappy.

When I was eighteen, I went to university to study Italian, but I often remembered Allegra and that strange week at the Villa Henderson. How could I forget it? And I often thought about Allegra's strange words: 'I want to see my Daddy before I die.' How did she know that she was going to die? And then there was the ghost Allegra in my room, saying, 'I want to see my Mamà before I die.' What did it all mean? I wanted to find the answer to this mystery. But how?

In spring I went to Italy for my studies and I stayed in Florence with an Italian family. They had a little daughter. When they told me her name, I couldn't believe my ears.

'We wanted a different name,' the mother told me, 'a name that you don't often find in Italy. Allegra came to me suddenly. It's a beautiful name and we hoped that she would be a happy child. But she isn't happy. She's a strange girl.'

I looked at the child. She was tall; her face was pale and beautiful. She had long brown hair and brown eyes.

'How old is she?' I asked.

'She's five.'

'Five? Are you sure — I mean, is she?' I said, stupidly.

'Yes, five.' The mother looked at me strangely.

'Can I ask you when she was five? I mean, when is her birthday?'

The mother looked surprised. 'In January. Why?'

'But please tell me the exact day. You see, I'd like to buy her a present next year.'

Now the mother was smiling. 'She was born on January 21st.'

When I went to my room that night, I was afraid and I didn't go to bed. I was thinking about Allegra Henderson. She died on April 21st when she was five years and three months old. So she was born on January 21st too! Was it possible that this Italian Allegra had the same name, the same birthday, the same age? I couldn't sleep so I tried to read a book about some English poets in Italy. But I couldn't. I was waiting, waiting...

She came at midnight. I looked at my watch and then she was there in a dark corner of the room. A beautiful, blond child, her skin like milk, her eyes like the blue of an Italian sky. She wore a long white nightdress. Allegra.

'Will you take me to my Mamà?' she asked in her beautiful English. 'She's at Bagno a Ripoli. It isn't far from here.'

I was very afraid now and I shouted, 'Go away! Go away!'

But she came and stood by my armchair.

'I want to see Mamà before I die. Take me!' she said angrily.

I ran out of that room very fast.

Next morning I decided to go to Bagno a Ripoli. I drove there in my small Fiat 500. There were only a few houses, and a small church called Santa Maria dell'Antella. I went into the church but there was nothing special about it. Then I walked around the small cemetery behind it. But I didn't see anything different so I decided to go back to Florence. When I was going out of the cemetery, I saw a tombstone with some English words on it. I stopped and read:

Here lies Claire Clairmont

Died in Florence

March 19th 1879

Aged 81

The name Claire again! The name of the ghost Allegra's mother! I was very surprised but I still didn't understand anything.

In Florence that afternoon I decided to go to a bar and read the book about the English poets. And while I was reading about Byron and Shelley, I began to understand the mystery of Allegra.

terrible adj. making you feel afraid or shocked 可怕的，骇人的

terrible

fever n. an illness or a medical condition in which you have a very high temperature 发烧

fever

medicine n. a substance used for treating illness, especially a liquid you drink 药

medicine

shocked adj. feeling surprised and upset by something very unexpected and unpleasant 震惊的

shocked

mystery n. something that is impossible to understand or explain or about which little is known 神秘的事物

mystery

exact adj. correct in every detail 确切的

exact

church n. a building where Christians go to worship 教堂

church

special adj. not ordinary or usual 特别的

special

cemetery n. a piece of land，usually not belonging to a church，in which dead people are buried （不属于教会的）公墓

cemetery

tombstone n. a stone that is put on a grave and shows the dead person's name, dates of birth and death etc. 墓碑

tombstone

bar n. a place where alcoholic drinks are served 酒吧

bar





3． 　阿利格拉三


回到英国，我继续上学读书，但却没有忘记阿利格拉。我给她写信，还寄去一些小礼物。她没有回过信，不过我想：她才只有5岁，也许还不会写信呢。

当我们的意大利之行结束一年以后，我收到了玛格丽特·亨德森的来信。她先在信中对我寄去的信和礼物表示感谢，然后写道：

很抱歉一直没有给你写信，因为过去的一年对我们来说真是痛苦不堪。到现在我还是难以动笔，但今天是4月21日，我想告诉你去年的今天发生了可怕的事情。基娅拉和我现在仍然很伤心，而且基娅拉一直病着。她吃不下东西，也不愿和任何人讲话。现在我就把原因告诉你。你们走后才一周，小阿利格拉就发烧了。没几天，她的病加重了，我们找来了医生。医生也不能确定病因，他告诉我们：“也许她喝了不干净的水，或是吃了变质的食物。”他给阿利格拉开了些药，而后她的病情有了好转。可是很快阿利格拉就又发烧了。我们找不到医生，当他赶到时，已经太晚了。我们深爱的小阿利格拉就在一年前的4月21日去世了。这真像是一场噩梦啊！我们亲爱的孩子只有5岁零3个月，可是她走了，再也不会回到我们身边了！

读了这封信，我震惊不已。阿利格拉死了！我伤心地哭了。很长时间我都无法相信这是真的。我还记得她的面孔、声音和充满孩子气的讲话，记得我们在一起的游戏和交谈。对阿利格拉的记忆不断涌现，像幽灵一般挥之不去，让我陷入了悲伤。

18岁那年，我上了大学，学习意大利语。我依旧时常想起阿利格拉和在亨德森庄园度过的那不寻常的一周。我无法忘记那一切！阿利格拉那些难以捉摸的话经常浮现在我的脑海里：“我想在死之前见到爸爸。”她怎么知道自己要死呢？还有那个出现在我房间里的幽灵阿利格拉，她总是说：“我要在死之前见到妈妈。”这些到底都意味着什么呢？我希望解开这个谜团，可是我该怎么做呢？

春季学期我去意大利学习，住在佛罗伦萨的一个意大利家庭里。他们有一个小女儿，当他们告诉我她的名字时，我简直不敢相信自己的耳朵。

“当时我们想起个与众不同的名字，”她妈妈告诉我，“一个在意大利不常见的名字。然后我突然想到了阿利格拉。这名字很美，我们希望女儿会是个快乐的孩子。但是她并不快乐，她是个很怪的孩子。”

我看着那女孩：高个儿；面孔苍白，但很漂亮；长发和眼睛都是棕色的。

“她几岁了？”我问。

“5岁。”

“5岁？你确定吗？——我是说，真的吗？”我傻傻地问道。

“没错，是5岁。”这位妈妈不解地看着我。

“能告诉我她什么时候满5周岁吗？我是说，她的生日是什么时候？”

妈妈感到很惊讶。“是1月，怎么了？”

“请告诉我确切的日期。因为……明年我想为她买生日礼物。”

这时，女孩的妈妈露出了笑容。“她是1月21日出生的。”

那天晚上回到房间后，我没有睡觉，心中忐忑不安。我想到了阿利格拉·亨德森。她是4月21日去世的，那时她5岁零3个月。那么她的生日也是1月21日！难道这个叫阿利格拉的意大利女孩跟她同名、同岁、同一天出生吗？我无法入睡，于是翻看起一本有关在意大利的英国诗人的书。但是我看不进去。我其实是在等待着……

她在午夜时分出现了。我看了看手表，而她忽然出现在房间黑暗的角落里。一个美丽的金发女孩，皮肤如牛奶般润白，眼睛像意大利的天空一样湛蓝，穿着长长的白色睡裙。是阿利格拉。

“你能带我去妈妈那儿吗？”她用美丽的英语问道，“她在巴尼奥阿里波，离这儿不远。”

此时我害怕极了，朝她喊道：“走开！快走开！”

但是她走了过来，站在我的扶手椅旁。

“我要在死之前见到妈妈。带我去吧！”她生气地说。

我拔腿逃离了那个房间。

第二天上午，我决定开着自己那辆小菲亚特500去巴尼奥阿里波。那里只有寥寥几座房屋和一座叫圣玛丽亚德尔安蒂拉的小教堂。我进了教堂，但是没有发现任何特别之处。然后我绕到了教堂后面一块不大的墓地，仍旧一无所获。于是，我决定返回佛罗伦萨。就在即将走出墓地时，我看到了一块刻着英文的墓碑。我停了下来，墓碑上写着：

克莱尔·克莱尔蒙特长眠于此

1879年3月19日

卒于佛罗伦萨

享年81岁

又是克莱尔！幽灵阿利格拉妈妈的名字！我感到很吃惊，却仍然不明真相。

回到佛罗伦萨的那个下午，我决定去酒吧，在那里读读那本关于英国诗人的书。当我读到拜伦和雪莱时，渐渐明白了阿利格拉的秘密。





4Lord Byron's Daughter


Lord Byron's Daughter

This is what I read:

On January 21st 1817 Claire Clairmont, nineteen years old, had a baby daughter in a town called Bath in England. The baby's father was the poet Lord Byron, but he was not Claire's husband. They were lovers for a while but then Byron went to Italy. He did not love Claire and he did not want to be with her. So Claire lived with Byron's friends — the poet Shelley, his wife Mary, and their two children. Claire and Mary were half-sisters; they had the same father but different mothers. Shelley liked children very much and he felt a strong love for Claire's baby. He hoped that his friend Byron would help Claire and her daughter. From Bath he wrote to him:

Claire has a very beautiful girl. Her hair is fair and her eyes are blue... Claire calls her Alba.

Byron wanted to see his baby daughter and he asked Shelley to bring her to Italy. Shelley wanted to live in Italy too, so he and his family, and Claire and her baby, all travelled there. The baby was a year old and now she was called Allegra because Byron liked the name.

In Italy Claire decided to give Allegra to Byron because she thought that the daughter of an English lord would have a good future. Shelley said to her: 'No, don't do it, Claire, or you will never see your daughter again.' But Byron was rich and Claire thought that Allegra would have a better life with him. Of course, she did not want to give Allegra to Byron, and when she sent the child to him in Venice, she was very unhappy. In a letter to a friend she wrote:

In the spring of 1818 I sent my little darling to her father. She was the only thing that I loved in the world.

It was a terrible mistake. Allegra lived with her father in a big house called the Palazzo Mocenigo. It was full of strange animals, and even stranger people. After a while Lord Byron understood that it was not a good home for a child. So he gave Allegra to an English family in Venice, and in August Claire saw her there. Then Byron said that Claire and her baby and Shelley's family could stay at his villa near a town called Este. For two months Claire was happy there with Allegra. But Byron also said that she must bring Allegra to him in Venice in the autumn. So in October Allegra went back to her father, and Claire never saw her again.

Allegra stayed in Venice for eight months with different families. Then Byron took her to the city of Bologna. He wrote to Shelley:

She is like me. She has white skin. Her voice is soft and she can't say the letter 'r'.

For many months he sent no news to Claire about her daughter. Then she heard that Allegra was with her father in a town called Ravenna. She wrote to him, 'I want to see my daughter — please!' But he said no. Claire wrote a lot of letters like this to Byron, but he did not answer them. She was very unhappy.

When Allegra was four years old, Byron sent her to a convent school near Ravenna. The nuns were kind and loved her very much. But the convent was strange to her. The walls were white and cold, the rooms were empty, and sometimes she was cold because there was no fire. Every day she did the same things at the same time. This quiet life was very different from her life with Byron.

Claire was now very angry. She did not like convent schools, and she was sure that Allegra was always cold and lonely. She wrote an angry letter to Byron: 'My child must be with one of her parents,' she said. He did not answer the letter. He thought that the convent was good for Allegra, and he told the nuns that Claire must never visit the child. They must lock the doors to stop her. But he said that Shelley could see Allegra because he was his friend. So one day Shelley went to visit Allegra at the convent. He wrote in his diary:

She is tall and pale. But her eyes are very blue, and she has a lot of blond hair. She is beautiful and very different from the other children. I ran and played with her in the garden. She is very light and fast. I gave her some sweets and I asked her, 'What shall I say to your Mamà?' She answered in Italian, 'Tell her to send me a kiss and a beautiful dress.' Then I asked her, 'What shall I say to your Papà?' And she answered, 'Tell him to visit me and to bring Mamà with him.'

But Papà did not visit her and Mamà did not come.

On June 6th 1821 Claire dreamt that Allegra was ill. She thought that her daughter was going to die and she would never see her again. 'Take her away from the convent,' she wrote to Byron. But he said no. Of course, Claire wanted to go to the convent and take Allegra away, but this was very difficult. Byron was a rich and famous lord and the people in the convent did what he wanted. They locked the doors.

And then Allegra got a fever. The doctor came and gave her some medicine. For a while she was better and the nuns hoped that she would live. But she died on April 21st 1822. She was five years and three months old.

Shelley was afraid to tell Claire that Allegra was dead. He thought that she would try to kill herself. But one evening Shelley, Mary, and some friends were talking about Allegra when Claire came into the room. At once everybody stopped talking, and she knew.

'Allegra's dead, isn't she?' she said.

So Shelley told her the sad story. She was very unhappy and wanted to die. Shelley was also unhappy. He loved Allegra like a daughter and he could not forget her. Two weeks after Allegra died, he was with one of his friends on the balcony of a house by the sea. Suddenly he saw a child with long, fair hair and very blue eyes. She was coming out of the sea and she was smiling at him. In the moonlight he saw that she wanted to come to him.

'Look, there it is!' he said to his friend. 'Can you see her? Look — there!'

But his friend saw nothing. It was Allegra's ghost. And fifty years after Allegra died, Claire wrote to a friend:

I can never forget my darling child. But did she really die? Byron and Shelley said that she died, but I have heard that she is alive. Some people say that they have seen her. I am sure that she is alive.

Claire died in 1879 when she was eighty-one years old. Her tombstone is in the cemetery of Santa Maria dell'Antella at Bagno a Ripoli.

half-sister n. a sister who is the daughter of only one of your parents 同父异母姐妹

half-sister

fair adj. (having hair that is) light in colour （头发）金色的

fair

future n. the time after the present 未来

future

mistake n. something unwise or stupid that someone does, which they regret doing afterwards 错误

mistake

empty adj. containing nothing 空的

empty

lonely adj. unhappy because you are alone and feel that you do not have anyone to talk to 孤独的，寂寞的

lonely

diary n. a book in which you write down the things that happen to you each day 日记

diary

sweet n. a small piece of sweet food made of sugar or chocolate 糖果

sweet

balcony n. a raised flat surface which is built out from the upstairs wall of a building 阳台

balcony

alive adj. still living and not dead 活（着）的

alive





4． 　拜伦勋爵的女儿


以下是我所读到的：

1817年1月21日，19岁的克莱尔·克莱尔蒙特在英格兰巴斯市生下一个女孩。诗人拜伦勋爵是孩子的父亲，但他们并没有结婚，只是做过一段时间的情人，后来拜伦去了意大利。他不爱克莱尔，也不想和她生活在一起。克莱尔只好找到拜伦的朋友，诗人雪莱，与雪莱夫妇和他们的两个孩子住在一起。雪莱的夫人玛丽与克莱尔是同父异母的姐妹。雪莱喜欢孩子，对克莱尔的女儿尤其喜爱，他希望拜伦能够帮助克莱尔母女，于是就从巴斯给拜伦写信：

克莱尔生了个女儿，金发碧眼，非常漂亮，……克莱尔给她起名叫阿尔巴。

拜伦想见自己的女儿，就请雪莱带她来意大利。雪莱也想到意大利生活，便带着家人和克莱尔母女一同前往。这时小女孩1岁，并改名为阿利格拉，因为拜伦喜欢这个名字。

在意大利，克莱尔决定将阿利格拉交给拜伦抚养，因为她觉得作为英国勋爵的女儿会有更好的前途。雪莱对她说：“不要那么做，克莱尔，不然你就再也见不到自己的女儿了。”但是拜伦很富有，克莱尔觉得阿利格拉和他在一起会生活得更好。当然，克莱尔并非真的想 这样做，在威尼斯把孩子交给拜伦时，她非常伤心。在给朋友的信中，她写道：

1818年春天，我把宝贝女儿交给了她的父亲。她是这世上我唯一爱的人。

克莱尔做了个极其错误的决定。阿利格拉同父亲住在一座叫莫契尼格宫的豪宅里。那儿总是聚集着稀奇古怪的人和动物。过了一段时间，拜伦勋爵发现这个居所并不适合孩子，于是将阿利格拉送到威尼斯的一户英国人家里。8月份，克莱尔在那里见到了女儿。后来拜伦允许克莱尔母女和雪莱一家住在他在埃斯特镇附近的别墅里。在那儿，克莱尔和女儿阿利格拉度过了愉快的两个月。但是拜伦说克莱尔必须在秋天把女儿带回威尼斯，交给他。所以，到了10月份，阿利格拉又回到了父亲身边，而克莱尔从此再也没有见过她。

在威尼斯，阿利格拉生活了8个月，先后被寄养在好几个家庭里。而后，拜伦带她去了波洛尼亚。在给雪莱的信中，他写道：

她很像我，皮肤白皙，声音轻柔，但是不会发字母“r”的音。

接下来的数月里，拜伦没有告诉克莱尔任何有关女儿的消息。后来，克莱尔听说阿利格拉和父亲在一个叫拉文纳的城里，于是写信求拜伦：“请让我见见女儿！”但是被拒绝了。克莱尔给拜伦写了很多类似的信，但他都没有回复。这让她很伤心。

在阿利格拉4岁时，拜伦把她送到了拉文纳附近的一所修道院学校。修女们很和善，也很喜欢阿利格拉，但修道院对她来说是个陌生的地方。墙壁是白色的，冷漠而生硬，房间里空空荡荡，没有壁炉，有时她会觉得冷。每天，阿利格拉都要在同样的时间做同样的事，这种安静的生活和她跟拜伦在一起时截然不同。

克莱尔对此非常不满。她不喜欢修道院学校，而且深信阿利格拉在那里会感到孤独、寒冷。她气愤地给拜伦写信，说：“我的女儿必须跟我们之中的一人生活在一起。”拜伦没有回信。他认为修道院学校对阿利格拉有好处，还告诉那儿的修女绝对不能允许克莱尔去看望女儿，要将其拒之门外。但是他说雪莱可以见阿利格拉，因为他们是朋友。于是，有一天雪莱去修道院看望了阿利格拉。他在日记中写道：

她个子很高，面色苍白，长着蓝色的眼睛和一头浓密的金发，是个漂亮而又与众不同的孩子。我陪她在花园里追逐玩耍，她跑起来轻快敏捷。我送给她一些糖果，又问她：“你想要我跟你妈妈说什么？”她用意大利语回答：“告诉她送给我一个吻和一条漂亮的裙子。”然后我问：“你想跟爸爸说什么？”她说：“让他带着妈妈来看我。”

但是爸爸和妈妈都没有去看她。

1821年6月6日，克莱尔梦到阿利格拉病了。她猜想女儿快死了，自己将再也见不到她了。“带孩子离开修道院，”她写信央求拜伦，但被拒绝了。克莱尔当然希望自己能去修道院把女儿接走，可是这么做很困难。拜伦是位富有且声名显赫的勋爵，修道院的人顺从他的意愿，锁住大门。

在那之后阿利格拉发烧了。医生来看过，并开了药。曾有一段时间她的病情有所好转，修女们以为她会活下来。但是1822年4月21日，她去世了，那一天刚好5岁零3个月。

雪莱不敢把阿利格拉去世的消息告诉克莱尔，担心她会轻生。但是，一天晚上，正在雪莱、玛丽和几个朋友谈论阿利格拉时，克莱尔走进了房间，大家突然止住了谈话，克莱尔意识到了。

“阿利格拉不在了，是不是？”她问。

雪莱只得把这个不幸的消息告诉她。克莱尔非常伤心，甚至想要结束生命。雪莱也很难过，他像父亲一样疼爱阿利格拉，无法忘记她。阿利格拉去世两周后的一天，雪莱和一个朋友在一处海边住所的阳台上，突然他看见个金发碧眼的女孩从大海里走出来，向他微笑着。借着月光雪莱看见她正要朝自己走来。

“快看那边！”他对朋友说，“看见她了吗？就在那儿！”

但是他的朋友什么都没看见。那是阿利格拉的幽灵。

在阿利格拉死去50年以后，克莱尔在寄给朋友的信中写道：

我永远都无法忘记我亲爱的女儿。可是她真的死了吗？拜伦和雪莱说她死了，但我听说她还活着。有人说见过她。我相信她还活着。

1879年，克莱尔在81岁时去世了，墓碑安放在巴尼奥阿里波的圣玛丽亚德尔安蒂拉墓地。





5Bagno a Ripoli


Bagno a Ripoli

After I read this strange, sad story, I understood the mystery of Allegra. Was she still alive? No. But her ghost was still in the world. The little girl in my room was the ghost of Claire Clairmont's Allegra. She was unhappy and she couldn't rest because she wanted to be with her mother. But she couldn't find her. She knew that her mother was at Bagno a Ripoli, but she didn't know how to get there. So her unhappy ghost lived and waited in the body of Allegra Henderson, Chiara's daughter. At night it left Allegra's body and came to my room for help. Then poor Allegra died of fever, just like Claire's Allegra. But the ghost couldn't rest; it had to find another child's body.

'Who is the child?' I asked myself.

'Who is the next Allegra — Allegra Three?'

But I already knew the answer. My Italian family in Florence had a little daughter. Her name was Allegra, and she would be five years and three months on April 21st.

It was now the evening of April 20th.

I left the bar quickly and ran back to my family's house. When I arrived, the mother was crying.

'Allegra is in hospital,' she told me. 'She's got a bad fever and the doctors aren't sure what it is. Oh, I hope it isn't dangerous! I hope she'll get better soon!'

'She'll be all right,' I said. 'She'll get better.'

But that night in my room I said to myself, 'Oh, please — no, no!'

I walked round and round the room and I thought of my dear friend Allegra Henderson. I was afraid that Allegra Three was going to die the next day. But what could I do about it?

'No! This Allegra must not die!' I said angrily.

Then, suddenly, I knew what to do. I waited. Ten o'clock, eleven o'clock, midnight. 'Please, please, come!' I said.

I looked at my watch. Twelve fifteen.

'Will she come, will she come?' I said again and again.

And then she was there: the ghost of Lord Byron's daughter! Pale, beautiful, with big blue eyes and hair like gold. She was smiling at me.

'Are you going to take me to Mamà?'

'Yes, Allegra. We're going to Bagno a Ripoli. But we must hurry. Come on, let's go!'

She laughed happily. 'Oh, thank you! You're so kind!'

I took her cold little hand. We went out of the house and got into my car. I drove very fast through the night.

'Oh, I'm going to see my dear Mamà!' Allegra said. 'I'll be with her after all these years. We'll be so happy! I loved her and she loved me. But Papà took me away from her and he sent me to a convent school. I didn't like it there. It was so cold and quiet! Mamà didn't come and Papà didn't come. Why didn't they come?'

But then she laughed and began to sing an Italian song.

When we arrived at Bagno a Ripoli, she jumped out of the car and looked around.

'Where is Mamà?' she cried.

'Follow me,' I said.

We went into the cemetery and I took her to Claire Clairmont's tombstone.

'She's here,' I said. 'Your Mamà is here.'

Allegra read the name on the tombstone.

'Mamà?' she called. 'Are you here? It's me, Allegra. I'm here, your Allegra is here.' She was crying with happiness.

I was happy too, but I was also afraid. The cemetery was dark and silent, there was a soft wind in the trees, and in front of my eyes was this little child's ghost in a white nightdress, calling for its dead mother.

'Yes, I hear you, Mamà!' Allegra cried. 'I'm coming, I'm coming...'

And very slowly the ghost of Allegra began to disappear. And her voice was slowly going away.

'Wait for me, Mamà! I'm coming...I'm coming...'

And then the ghost wasn't there. Allegra was with her mother at last.

jump v. to move quickly or suddenly in a particular direction 快速（突然）移动

jump

disappear v.to become impossible to see or find 消失；失踪

disappear





5． 　巴尼奥阿里波


这则离奇又伤感的故事帮我解开了围绕阿利格拉的谜团。她还活着吗？不。但是她的灵魂还在世上，没有散去。出现在我房间里的小女孩就是克莱尔·克莱尔蒙特的女儿阿利格拉的幽灵。因为想跟妈妈在一起，她不开心，也无法安息，但是她无法找到妈妈。她知道妈妈在巴尼奥阿里波，却不知道该怎么去那儿。所以她忧伤的灵魂留在了世上，并且附在基娅拉的女儿阿利格拉·亨德森的身体上。到了夜里，她就离开阿利格拉的身体，去我的房间里求助。然后可怜的阿利格拉与克莱尔的女儿阿利格拉一样，死于发热。可是幽灵阿利格拉依然无法安息，仍要找到一个可以附体的孩子。

“那个小孩会是谁呢？”我问自己，“谁会是下一个阿利格拉——阿利格拉三？”

其实我已经知道答案了。在佛罗伦萨我所寄宿的意大利家庭里的小女儿，名字就叫阿利格拉，到4月21日她就正好5岁零3个月。

而现在是4月20日的傍晚。

我立刻离开了酒吧，往那户人家里跑去。我到达时，女孩的妈妈正在哭。

“阿利格拉住院了，”她告诉我，“她烧得很厉害，医生也不知道为什么。天哪！但愿她没有危险，能很快好起来。”

“她不会有事的，”我说，“她会好的。”

可是，晚上回到房间里，我禁不住暗自祈祷：“千万不要，不要这样！”

我在房间里来回走着，又想起了我的朋友阿利格拉·亨德森。我害怕这第三个阿利格拉会在第二天死去。可是我能为此做什么呢？

“不行！一定不能让这个阿利格拉死去！”我懊恼地说道。

这时，我突然想到该怎么做了。我等待着。时间在不停地流逝，10点，11点，午夜。“来吧，一定要来呀！”我念叨着。

我看了看表，已经12点一刻了。

“她会来吗？会出现吗？”我焦急地一遍遍问自己。

就在那一刻，她现身了：拜伦勋爵女儿的幽灵！那个面色苍白，金发碧眼的漂亮女孩。她对我露出了笑容。

“你要带我去找妈妈吗？”

“是的，阿利格拉。我们要去巴尼奥阿里波，不过我们得抓紧。快，咱们走吧！”她开心地笑了。“啊，谢谢你，你真是太好了！”

我拉着她冰冷的小手，走出房间，上了我的车。在夜色中，我的车开得飞快。

“哦，我就要见到亲爱的妈妈了！”阿利格拉说，“过了这么多年，我终于能和妈妈在一起了，我们该有多幸福啊！我爱妈妈，妈妈也爱我。可是爸爸把我从她身边带走，送我去了修道院学校。我不喜欢那儿，在那儿又冷又孤单。妈妈和爸爸都没有来看我，他们为什么不来呢？”

讲到这儿，她却又笑了，还唱起一首意大利歌曲。

我们到达巴尼奥阿里波时，阿利格拉从车上跳下来，四处张望。

“妈妈在哪儿？”她嚷道。

“跟我来。”我对她说。

我带她走进墓地，来到克莱尔·克莱尔蒙特的墓碑前。

“她在这儿，”我说，“你的妈妈就在这儿。”

阿利格拉读着墓碑上的名字。

“妈妈？”她呼喊着，“你在吗？是我，阿利格拉。我来了，你的女儿阿利格拉来了。”她欣喜地呼唤着。

我也很高兴，却又感到害怕。墓地里漆黑一片，寂静无声，四周只有轻风搅动树叶的声音，而这小女孩的幽灵就站在我的眼前，穿着白色睡裙，呼唤着她死去的妈妈。

“是的，我听到你了，妈妈！”阿利格拉大声说，“我来了，我来了……”

说着，阿利格拉的幽灵开始慢慢消散，声音也渐渐飘向了远方。

“等着我，妈妈！我来了……我来了……”

然后幽灵消失了。阿利格拉终于和妈妈团聚了。





6Allegra Four


Allegra Four

At eight o'clock the next morning Allegra's mother came to my room and woke me up. She had a big smile on her face.

'My Allegra is much better!' she said. 'The doctor telephoned early this morning. He says that the fever has gone. It went suddenly last night. She's going to get well. Oh, I'm so happy! I'm going to the hospital to bring her home. Would you like to come with me?'

So we went to the hospital and I saw Allegra. She looked a little tired but she was well. Perhaps you can understand how I felt. Allegra Henderson was dead — but I felt that she was alive again!

That was on April 21st, eight years ago.

And now? Well, six years ago I met an Italian girl and we fell in love. We got married and a year later my wife had a baby girl. She's got long black hair and green eyes. Her face is pale but beautiful. She is tall for her years. She speaks English and Italian very well, but she can't say 'r'. Yes, she's like my little friend Allegra who died twelve years ago. But she's a happy child.

Today I've asked her lots of times, 'How are you? Do you feel well?'

'Yes, Daddy, of course I feel well,' she says. And she laughs.

'Are you sure?'

'Yes! I feel fine. Why?'

But I don't want to tell her why. You see, today is April 20th and tomorrow my daughter will be five years and three months old.

Oh! I forgot to tell you her name! But you know it already — don't you?

get married to take (a person ) in marriage （与……）结婚

get married





6． 　阿利格拉四


第二天早晨8点，阿利格拉的妈妈到我的房间叫醒了我。她的脸上挂着灿烂的笑容。

“我的阿利格拉好多了！”她说，“医生一早打来电话，说她的烧已经退了，是昨天夜里突然好的。她正在恢复，这让我太高兴了！我要去医院接她回家，你愿意跟我去吗？”

而后我们一起去了医院。我见到了阿利格拉，她看起来有些疲倦，但是很健康。你也许能猜出我当时的感受吧：已经去世的阿利格拉·亨德森似乎又复活了！

那一天是8年前的4月21日。

现在如何？6年前我结识了一个意大利女孩，我们相爱、结婚，婚后一年我们的小女儿诞生了。她长着黑色的长发，绿色的眼睛，面色苍白，但是很漂亮。她在同龄的孩子中是高个子，会说流利的英语和意大利语，但却不会发字母“r”的音。没错，她很像我的朋友，12年前去世的阿利格拉，不过她是个快乐的孩子。

今天我不停地追问女儿：“怎么样？你感觉好吗？”

“很好，爸爸，当然很好。”她笑着回答。

“你确定？”

“是的！我好极了。您为什么问这个？”

我可不想把原因告诉她。知道吗，今天是4月20日，而明天我的女儿就5岁零3个月了。

哦！我忘记告诉你她的名字了！不过你已经知道了，对吗？

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1．Read the story introduction of the book. How much do you know now about The Mystery of Allegra ? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) There are two girls called Allegra.

YES □／NO □

2) The name 'Allegra' means 'happy'.

YES □／NO □

3) The first Allegra is ten years old.

YES □／NO □

4) She is never unhappy.

YES □／NO □

5) She has a friend called Adrian.

YES □／NO □

6) The second Allegra is there every morning.

YES □／NO □

7) She has cold hands and a cold face.

YES □／NO □

2．What is going to happen in the story? Can you guess? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) A girl called Allegra will die.

YES □／NO □

2) Adrian will be in danger.

YES □／NO □

3) Adrian will help a girl called Allegra.

YES □／NO □

4) A girl called Allegra will kill somebody.

YES □／NO □

5) Adrian will find out that the second Allegra is not a real person.

YES □／NO □

6) There will be four girls called Allegra in this story.

YES □／NO □

ACTIVITIES

While Reading

1．Read Chapter 1. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Rewrite the false ones with the correct information.

1) Adrian met Allegra twelve years ago.

2) Adrian and his parents were on holiday in France.

3) Margaret Henderson was Italian.

4) Margaret had a daughter and a granddaughter.

5) Adrian didn't wake up in the night.

6) A little girl came into Adrian's room in the night.

7) Allegra said that her mother was in the house.

8) Adrian didn't see how Allegra left his room.

9) Adrian didn't see anybody in the next bedroom.

10) Chiara said that Allegra sometimes walked in her sleep.

2．Read Chapter 2. Choose the best question-word for these questions and then answer them.

Who/Where

1) ... had long black hair and brown eyes?

2) ... couldn't go to sleep at first because he was afraid?

3) ... did Allegra want to go?

4) ... did Chiara's husband live?

5) ... wanted to see her father?

6) ... wanted to see her mother?

3．Read Chapter 3, then answer these questions.

1) Why didn't Allegra answer Adrian's letters?

2) How old was Allegra when she died?

3) Why did Adrian go to Florence?

4) Who had the same name and birthday as Allegra Henderson?

5) Who came to Adrian's room at midnight?

6) Where did Adrian go the next morning?

7) When and where did Claire Clairmont die?

4．Before you read Chapter 4，what can you guess about the mystery of Allegra? Choose Y(Yes) or N(No) for each sentence.

1) Claire Clairmont had a daughter called Allegra. Y/N

2) Claire Clairmont's daughter died when she was five. Y/N

3) The first Allegra's father was an English poet. Y/N

4) Claire Clairmont didn't love her daughter. Y/N

5) Allegra was living with her father when she died. Y/N

6) Adrian was the only person who ever saw the ghost of Allegra. Y/N

5．Read Chapter 4 and check your guesses. Then answer these questions.

1) What was Allegra's father's name?

2) Who chose the name Allegra?

3) Why did Claire give Allegra to her father?

4) Where did Byron send Allegra when she was four?

5) Who went to visit Allegra?

6．Read Chapter 5. Who said this, and to whom?

1) 'Allegra is in hospital.'

2) 'She'll get better.'

3) 'We're going to Bagno a Ripoli.'

4) 'Where is Mamà?'

5) 'I'm here, your Allegra is here.'

7．Read Chapter 6. Here are some untrue sentences. Rewrite them with the correct information.

1) The doctor said that the third Allegra was going to die.

2) Adrian married an English girl.

3) Adrian and his wife had a baby boy.

4) Adrian's child doesn't speak English.

5) Adrian's daughter is an unhappy child.

8．Now answer these questions.

1) What is Adrian's daughter's name?

2) When is her birthday?

3) Is she going to die on April 21st?

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1．Match these halves of sentences to explain the mystery of Allegra. Use these words to join your sentences.

and /and/because/but/but/but/when

1) Claire Clairmont's daughter, Allegra, died in 1822, ______

2) She was unhappy ______

3) She wanted to go to Bagno a Ripoli ______

4) So she came to Adrian's room at night ______

5) ______ Allegra Henderson died,

6) Then the third Allegra became ill too, ______

7) He took the ghost Allegra to Bagno a Ripoli ______

8) she wanted to be with her mother.

9) she found her mother there.

10) asked him for help.

11) the ghost went to live in the body of the Italian family's Allegra.

12) her ghost lived in the body of Allegra Henderson.

13) Adrian knew how to help her.

14) she couldn't get there alone.

2．Read this description of Allegra One. Then write similar descriptions of Allegra Two, Allegra Three, and Allegra Four. Make any changes that are necessary.

Claire Clairmont's daughter was called Allegra, but she was often sad. She was tall and pale and she had big blue eyes and long blond hair. She could speak English and Italian but she couldn't say the letter 'r'. She was born on January 21st and she died on April 21st, when she was five years old.

3．Imagine that in June 1821 Claire went to see Byron and asked to see Allegra. Complete their conversation. Use as many words as you like.

CLAIRE:

You must let me see Allegra. Why did you send her to that terrible convent school?

BYRON:

Because ______.

CLAIRE:

No, it isn't. I'm sure that ______. I'm going to take her away.

BYRON:

Well, you can't. I've told the nuns ______.

CLAIRE:

You're so unkind. I'm Allegra's mother. And I know that she's ill.

BYRON:

How ______?

CLAIRE:

I ______. I think that she's going to die.

BYRON:

Of course she ______.

CLAIRE:

You don't love her. You don't want her with you, so why ______?

BYRON:

Because she must ______.

4．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter ______.

1) Who are the two people in the picture?

2) Where are they going?

3) Why?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption : ___________________________________

5．Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with these sentences? Explain why.

1) Claire Clairmont was wrong to give Allegra to Byron.

2) Byron was a very bad father.

3) Chiara Henderson was wrong to take her daughter to Italy when her husband still lived in England.

4) It was dangerous for Adrian to call his daughter Allegra.

5) Allegra One wasn't a ghost; she was just Adrian's dream.

6．Fill in the gaps in this text about ghosts. Use these words.

afraid, cold, dead, locked, night, rest, room, see, unhappy, wear

They say that ghosts are ______ people who cannot ______. They are usually ______. Ghosts come at ______; they often ______ white clothes, and they are ______ when you touch them. They can come into a ______ when the door and windows are ______. When they leave, you don't ______ where they go. People are often ______ of ghosts.

7．Now discuss your answers to these questions.

1) Do you believe in ghosts?

2) Have you or any of your friends ever seen a ghost?

3) Have you seen any films or TV programmes about ghosts?

4) Would you like to see a ghost? Why or why not?

京权图字 01-2006-3283

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2002

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

五镇故事：英汉对照／（英）贝内特（Bennett, A.）著；（英）布拉德（Bullard, N.）改写；孟颖译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2006.6（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Stories from the Five Towns

ISBN 978-7-5600-5420-9

Ⅰ．五…　Ⅱ．①贝…②布…③孟…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②故事—作品集—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2006）第019036号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 周　晶

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2006年6月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-5420-9

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


伯斯利、汉桥、克尼普、朗肖、特恩希尔——这就是本书所说的五镇。这些故事发生在20世纪初的英格兰中部地区。如今的五镇已经成为斯托克城，不过这个地方仍然因为陶瓷和阿诺德·贝内特故事中的人物而闻名。

这些人既不是名人，也不是什么大人物。他们在商店和工厂工作；他们恋爱又失恋；他们会拌嘴，会争吵。他们有时头脑聪明而且事业成功，他们有时的所作所为又极其愚蠢。菲利普有个重要消息要告诉母亲，不过他自己也将得到一个大大的惊喜……杰先生讨厌自己的画像，但又能怎么办呢？这可是五镇人送给他的礼物……在克尼普站，托比·霍尔突然决定乘火车去特恩希尔，不过这是为什么呢？最后出场的是约翰和罗伯特。他们是亲兄弟，住在同一屋檐下，在同一张桌子上吃饭——但十年来他们没和对方说过一个字……





STORIES FROM THE FIVE TOWNS


Bursley, Hanbridge, Knype, Longshaw, Turnhill — these are the Five Towns of Arnold Bennett's stories, set in the English Midlands in the early 1900s. Today the Five Towns are the city of Stoke-on-Trent, but the place is still famous for its pottery... and for the people in Arnold Bennett's stories.

They are not famous or important people. They work in shops and factories; they fall in, and out of, love; they argue and they quarrel. Sometimes they are clever and successful, and sometimes they do very stupid things. Philip has some important news to tell his mother, but he is also going to get a big surprise... Sir Jee hates his portrait, but what can he do about it? It was a present from the people of the Five Towns... At Knype station, Toby Hall suddenly decides to take the train to Turnhill, but why? Then there are John and Robert. They are brothers, they live in the same house, they eat meals together — and neither has said a single word to the other for ten years...





News of the Engagement


My mother never came to meet me at Bursley station when I arrived in the Five Towns from London. She always had other things to do; she was getting ready for me. So I always walked alone up Trafalgar Road, between the factories and past the football field. And so tonight, I had time to think. I had some very important news for my mother, and I didn't know how to tell her.

I wrote to my mother every week, to tell her what I was doing. She knew the names of all my friends. I often wrote about Agnes and her family. But it's difficult to write in a letter: 'I think Agnes likes me,' 'I'm in love with her,' 'I'm sure she likes me,' 'I think she loves me,' 'I'm going to ask her to marry me.' You can't do that. Well, I couldn't do it. And on the 20th December I asked Agnes to marry me, and Agnes said yes. But my mother didn't know anything about it. And now, on the 22nd December, I was coming to spend Christmas with my mother.

My mother was a widow. I was her only son — and now I was engaged and she didn't know. I was afraid she was going to be a little unhappy, and I was ready for a difficult evening.

I walked up to the front door, but before I put my hand up to ring, the door opened and there was my mother. She put her arms around me.

'Well, Philip! How are you?'

And I said, 'Oh! I'm all right, mother. How are you?'

She smiled at me. She looked excited and younger than her forty-five years. There was something strange in her smile. I thought: 'She knows I'm going to get married. How does she know?'

But I said nothing. You have to be careful with mothers.

'I'll tell her at supper,' I decided.

I went upstairs to my bedroom. When I came down, my mother was busy in the kitchen. I went into the dining room, and here I had a surprise. There were three chairs around the table, and three plates and three glasses.

So Agnes was coming! I didn't know how my mother knew, but she did know. She and my wonderful Agnes were planning a surprise for me. Agnes was coming to Bursley for Christmas!

There was a ring at the door. 'It's Agnes!' I thought, and running to the door, I opened it.

It was Mr Nixon.

Mr Nixon was an old friend of the family. He was a large, strong man of about forty-nine or fifty. He was very helpful to my mother after my father's death.

'Good evening, young man,' he said. 'It's good to see you back in Bursley.'

'Mr Nixon has come for supper, Philip,' said my mother.

Mr Nixon often came to supper during my visits to Bursley, but never on the first night. I liked him, but I wasn't very happy to see him tonight because I wanted to talk to my mother. I couldn't talk to her about Agnes with Mr Nixon sitting at the table.

We started our supper. We talked about this and that, but nobody ate very much. I was thinking about what to say to my mother when Mr Nixon went home. At the end of the meal I told my mother that I must go to the post office. I had an important letter to post.

'Can't it wait until tomorrow, my pet?' my mother asked.

'It can't,' I said.

My letter, of course, was to Agnes. A letter to Agnes could not wait until tomorrow! I walked over to the dining room door.

'A letter to a lady?' asked Mr Nixon, laughing.

'Yes,' I replied.

I walked to the post office and posted my letter. When I got back home, I was sorry to see that Mr Nixon was still there. He was alone in the sitting-room, smoking.

'Where's mother?' I asked.

'She's just gone out of the room,' he said. 'Come and sit down. Have a cigarette. I'd like to talk to you, Philip.'

I took a cigarette and sat down. I hoped the talk was not going to be a long one.

'Well, my boy,' he said. 'Would you like me as a stepfather?'

For a second I could not move or speak.

'What?' I said. 'You mean... you and my mother...?'

'Yes, my boy, I do. I asked her yesterday, and she said yes. I've wanted to ask her for a long time — I think she knew that. Did she tell you in her letters? No? It's difficult to write in a letter, of course. She couldn't really write, "My dear Philip, an old friend, Mr Nixon, is falling in love with me and I think I'm falling in love with him. I think he'll ask me to marry him soon." I don't think your mother could write that, could she?'

I laughed.

'Shake hands,' I said. 'This is wonderful news.'

After a moment my mother came in, a little red in the face.

'The boy's very happy, Sarah,' said Mr Nixon.

I said nothing about my own plans that evening. It was something new to me that my mother could fall in love, and that a man could fall in love with her. It was something new to me that she was lonely in our old house and that perhaps she wanted a new life. Perhaps, like all sons, I thought only about myself and my life. So I decided to say nothing about my news, and that evening my mother came first for me. I could tell her about Agnes tomorrow. We live and learn.

widow n. a woman who has lost her husband by death and has not married again 寡妇

upstairs adv. to an upper floor 往楼上

pet n. a darling, a favourite 宠儿；宝贝

stepfather n. a male stepparent 继父

shake hands to move someone's hand up and down with your own hand as a greeting or as a sign you have agreed something 握手

fall in love develop a great love 爱上

live and learn to learn by experience ［用以对刚知道的事表示惊异］真是活一天学一天





订婚消息


每次我从伦敦回五镇，母亲都不会来伯斯利车站接我。她总有别的事要做：她是在为我回家做准备。因此我总是沿着特拉法尔加大街，经过工厂和足球场，一个人走回家。所以，今晚我有时间好好想想。我要告诉母亲一条重大消息，却不知该如何开口。

我每周都给母亲写信，告诉她我在忙些什么。她知道我所有朋友的名字。我经常提到阿格尼丝和她的家人。但在信中写不出这样的话：“我觉得阿格尼丝喜欢我”，“我爱上她了”，“我肯定她喜欢我”，“我觉得她爱我”，“我要向她求婚”。你没法这么写。反正，我是写不出来。12月20日我向阿格尼丝求婚，她答应了。但我母亲对此还一无所知。而今天，12月22日，我回来和母亲共度圣诞。

我的母亲是个寡妇。我是她的独子——而现在我已经订婚可她还不知道。我担心她会不大高兴，我准备好要过个难捱的晚上。

我走到家门口，还没按铃，门就开了，母亲站在那儿。她拥抱了我。

“哦，菲利普！你好吗？”

我说：“哦！我很好，母亲。你怎么样？”

她冲我笑了。她有些激动，看起来不像已经45岁的人。她笑得有点儿奇怪。我想：“她知道 我要结婚了。她怎么知道的？”

但我什么也没说。和母亲们打交道要小心才是。

“吃晚饭的时候我再告诉她。”我打定主意。

我上楼进了自己的卧室，下来的时候，母亲正在厨房忙碌。我走进餐厅，不由得吃了一惊。桌旁摆了三把椅子，桌上是三副杯盘。

这么说阿格尼丝真的 要来！我不知道母亲是如何得知的，但她肯定已经知道了。母亲和我可爱的阿格尼丝想给我惊喜。阿格尼丝要来伯斯利过圣诞！

门铃响了。“是阿格尼丝！”我这样想着，跑到门口打开了门。

来客是尼克松先生。

尼克松先生是我家的老朋友。他魁梧健壮，大概49岁或50岁的样子。父亲死后他对母亲很是照顾。

“晚上好，年轻人，”他说“很高兴看见你回到伯斯利。”

“尼克松先生来吃晚饭，菲利普。”母亲说。

我以前回伯斯利的时候，尼克松先生也经常来吃晚饭，但从没在我回来的第一个晚上来过。我挺喜欢他，但今晚见到他不是很开心，因为我本打算和母亲谈谈，而如果尼克松先生也在的话，我就不能和母亲谈阿格尼丝的事了。

我们开始吃晚饭。我们东聊西扯，但大家都吃得不多。我一直在想尼克松先生回家以后，我该如何对母亲说。吃完饭后，我告诉母亲我必须去趟邮局，我有一封重要的信要寄。

“宝贝儿，不能等明天再寄吗？”母亲问道。

“不行。”我回答。

我的信当然是寄给阿格尼丝的。给阿格尼丝的信可不能等到明天！我向餐厅门口走去。

“给一位小姐的信？”尼克松先生笑着问我。

“是的。”我回答。

我到邮局寄了信。回到家，我不安地发现尼克松先生还没走，他自己待在客厅里抽烟。

“母亲在哪儿？”我问。

“她刚出去。”他说，“过来坐下吧，抽支烟。我想和你谈谈，菲利普。”

我接过烟，坐了下来。我希望不会谈太久。

“哦，孩子，”他说，“你愿意让我做你的继父吗？”

有那么一会儿，我愣住了。

“什么？”我说，“你的意思是……你和我母亲……？”

“是的，孩子，是这个意思。昨天我向她求婚，她答应了。我很早就想向她求婚了——我想她也明白。她在信里跟你提过吗？没有？在信里写这个当然挺难的。她写不出这样的话：'我亲爱的菲利普，一个老朋友，尼克松先生爱上了我，而我也爱上了他。我想他很快会向我求婚。'我觉得你母亲写不出这种话，对吗？”

我笑了。

“握个手吧，”我说，“这是个特大的好消息。”

过了一会儿，母亲进来了，脸颊微微发红。

“孩子很开心，萨拉。”尼克松先生说。

那天晚上我没提自己的事。我以前从未想过母亲也会恋爱，没想过会有一个男人爱上她。她在老屋里很孤独，或许想开始新生活，这也是我没想到过的。大概和所有当儿子的一样，我只想着自己和自己的生活，所以我决定不说自己的事，在那个晚上母亲是最重要的。我可以明天再告诉她阿格尼丝的事。我们活一天就多明白一些事情。





The Burglary


Lady Dain said: 'Jee, if that portrait stays there much longer, I shall go mad. I can't eat any more with it up there!' She looked up at the big portrait on the wall opposite the breakfast table.

Sir Jehoshaphat said nothing.

Lady Dain did not like the portrait. Nobody in the Five Towns liked the portrait. But the portrait was by Cressage, the finest portrait painter in England, and a portrait by Cressage cost a thousand pounds or more.

Sir Jehoshaphat Dain was perhaps the cleverest and most successful businessman in the Five Towns. His business, called Dain Brothers, had one of the biggest pottery factories in England, and their cups and plates went all over the world. Sir Jehoshaphat was rich, because he sold his pottery very cheaply, and paid his workers very little. But Sir Jee liked to be important, so he used some of his money to pay for schools and hospitals for the people of the Five Towns.

The people of the Five Towns often laughed at Sir Jee, but they also wanted to say thank you for the schools and hospitals. They decided to give him a portrait for a present. So Cressage painted the portrait and many people in London thought it was very good. 'A wonderfully clever portrait of a successful businessman from a small town; a little man who has made a lot of money and who thinks he is very important,' said one newspaper.

It was not a kind portrait and many of the people of the Five Towns laughed when they saw it. But Sir Jehoshaphat had to take his present, and to say thank you for it. Now it was on his wall in his home, Sneyd Castle, and after sixteen months Lady Dain was tired of looking at it.

'Don't be stupid, wife,' said Sir Jee. 'I'm not taking that portrait down, or selling it — not even for ten thousand pounds. I want to keep it.'

But that wasn't true. Sir Jee hated the portrait more than his wife did. And he was thinking of a secret plan to get rid of it.

'Are you going into town this morning?' asked his wife.

'Yes,' he answered. 'I'm in court today.'

He was one of the town magistrates. While he travelled into town, he thought about his plan for the portrait. It was a wild and dangerous plan, but he thought it was just possible.

*　　　*　　　*

That morning, the police were very angry with Sir Jee. A man was in court, and the police said he was a burglar. They wanted him to go to prison for five years or more. But Sir Jee did not agree. He said there was no proof that William Smith was a burglar. The other magistrate was very surprised at this and the police were very cross, but William Smith left the court a free man. Before he left, Sir Jee asked to see him in his office.

'Smith,' said Sir Jee, looking at him carefully, 'you were a lucky man this morning, you know.'

Smith was a small, thin man, with untidy hair and dirty clothes.

'Yes, I was lucky,' he answered. 'And what do you want from me?'

'I hope I can help you,' said Sir Jee.

'I don't know if I want help, but I never say no to money.'

'Sit down,' said Sir Jee.

William Smith sat down at Sir Jee's desk. 'Well?' he asked.

'I want you to steal something from my house. But it won't be a crime.'

'What?' Smith was very surprised.

'In my house, Sneyd Castle, there is a portrait of myself. I want someone to steal it.'

'Steal it?'

'Yes.'

'How much will you pay me for doing it?'

'Pay you?' said Sir Jee. 'It's a Cressage! You'll get two thousand pounds for it in America.'

And Sir Jee told Smith the story of the portrait and why he wanted to get rid of it. Smith thought for a minute and then said:

'All right, I'll do it, just to help you.'

'When can you do it? Tonight?'

'No,' said Smith. 'I'm busy tonight.'

'Well, tomorrow night.'

'I'm busy tomorrow, too.'

'You're a busy man,' said Sir Jee.

'Well, business is business, you know,' said Smith. 'I can do it the day after tomorrow.'

'But that's Christmas Eve.'

'Well, it's either that or Christmas Day. I'm busy again after that.'

'Not in the Five Towns, I hope,' said Sir Jee.

'No. There's nothing left in the Five Towns.'

So they agreed on Christmas Eve.

'Now,' said Sir Jee, 'I'll describe the rooms in Sneyd Castle to you. Then you'll know where —'

William Smith looked at him and laughed loudly. 'Describe the rooms to me? Do you think I'm stupid? I'm a businessman — I know Sneyd Castle better than you do.'

*　　　*　　　*

On the afternoon of 24th December, when Sir Jehoshaphat came home to Sneyd Castle, his wife was packing suitcases. The Dains were going to their son's house for Christmas. Their son John had a new wife and a new baby, and he wanted to spend Christmas in his new home with all the family.

Sir Jee said nothing to his wife immediately. He watched her for a while and then later, during tea, he said suddenly: 'I can't come to John's house this afternoon.'

'Oh, Jee!' she cried. 'You are difficult. Why didn't you tell me before?'

He didn't answer the question. 'I'll come over tomorrow morning — perhaps in time for church.'

'There's no food in the house. And the servants are all going away on holiday. There's nobody to cook for you. I'll stay with you if you like.'

'No, I'll be all right.'

Lady Dain went to her son's, leaving some cold food for Sir Jee.

Sir Jee had a cold, silent meal, in front of his portrait. He was alone in the castle and that was a good thing, he decided. There were no servants to wake up and hear William Smith at work. Sir Jee was a little afraid; perhaps it was dangerous to bring a burglar into the house. He looked again at the portrait in its big gold frame. 'Will he take the frame?' he asked himself. 'I hope he doesn't. It's very heavy. I don't think one man could carry that.' But perhaps Smith had someone to help him.

'Goodbye!' he said to his portrait, opened one of the windows for William Smith, and went to bed.

He did not sleep. He listened. At about two o'clock there were a few noises. They stopped, then started again. Smith was at work. Sir Jee got out of bed quietly, went to the window and looked out carefully. Two men were carrying something large and square across the garden. So Smith had a friend, and he was taking the portrait and the frame.

Sir Jee went back to bed. He slept for a few hours and then went downstairs.

The portrait was on the floor with some writing across it in big white letters: 'This is no good to me.' It was the big gold frame that was missing.

And that wasn't all. Plates, knives, forks, spoons, cups — everything made of silver was also missing. There was not a single silver spoon left in the castle.

portrait n. a painting, drawing, or photograph of a person 肖像；人像

stupid adj. unintelligent, slow-witted, foolish 愚蠢的

get rid of be freed or relieved of (something unwanted) 处理掉；丢弃

magistrate n. someone, not usually a lawyer, who works as a judge in a local court of law, dealing with less serious crimes 地方法官

steal v. take (another person's property) illegally 偷盗；窃取

crime n. a serious offence punishable by law 罪行

pack v. fill (a suitcase, bag, etc.) with clothes and other items 把东西装进（箱子、盒子等）

suitcase n．a large case with a handle, used for carry clothes and possessions when you travel 衣箱

frame n. a structure made of wood, metal, etc. that surrounds something such as a picture or window, and holds it in place 画框

no good to no advantage 没用

downstairs adv. down a flight of stairs 往楼下

spoon n. a utensil consisting of an oval or round bowl and a handle for conveying food to the mouth, for stirring, etc. 勺子





夜盗


戴恩夫人说：“杰，如果那画像继续挂在那儿，我会发疯的。它在那儿，我就再也吃不下去了。”她抬起头看了一眼餐桌对面墙上的大幅画像。

杰霍沙法特先生没说话。

戴恩夫人不喜欢这幅画像。五镇上没人喜欢。但这是克雷塞奇的画，他是英格兰最好的肖像画家。一幅克雷塞奇的肖像画至少值1000英镑。

杰霍沙法特·戴恩先生也许是五镇最精明、最成功的商人了，他的企业——戴恩兄弟公司，拥有英格兰最大的陶瓷工厂之一，生产的杯盘行销世界。杰霍沙法特很富有，因为他的陶瓷价格低廉，而且他付给工人的工资很少。然而杰先生喜欢出风头，于是他拿出一部分钱资助五镇的学校和医院。

五镇人经常嘲笑杰先生，但他们也想为那些学校和医院而感谢他。五镇人决定送给他一幅肖像作礼物，于是克雷塞奇画了这幅肖像。许多伦敦人觉得这幅画很不错。“对来自小镇的成功商人的绝妙刻画；一个自以为是的暴发户。”一家报纸如此评论。

画里的人一副奸诈嘴脸，许多五镇的人看到画的时候都笑了出来。然而杰霍沙法特先生必须接受这个礼物，还不得不表示感谢。现在这幅画挂在他的家——斯尼德城堡的墙上，16个月以后，戴恩夫人实在是看够了这幅画。

“别傻了，夫人，”杰先生说，“我不会把这幅画取下来或者卖掉的——给我一万英镑我也不卖。我想留着它。”

但事实并非如此。杰先生比他的妻子更讨厌这幅画。他在策划一个秘密计划来摆脱它。

“今早你要去镇上吗？”他的妻子问道。

“是的，”他回答，“我今天要上庭。”

他是镇上的地方法官之一。在去镇上的途中，他思索着关于肖像的计划。这个计划疯狂而危险，不过他认为行得通。

*　　　*　　　*

那天早上，警察对杰先生很是恼火。一个男人在接受审判，警察认定他是个夜贼，想把他送进监狱，判五年甚至更多，但杰先生不同意，他说没有证据表明威廉·史密斯是个夜贼。另一位法官很是惊讶，警察也很生气，但是威廉·史密斯被无罪释放了。他离开前，杰先生要他到自己的办公室来。

“史密斯，”杰先生边说边认真地打量着他，“今早你很走运，知道吗？”

史密斯又矮又瘦，头发凌乱，衣着邋遢。

“是，我很走运，”他答道，“你想让我做什么？”

“我希望能帮助你。”杰先生说。

“我不知道我是否需要帮助，不过我对钱从不拒绝。”

“坐下吧。”杰先生说。

威廉·史密斯在杰先生的桌子旁坐下来。“什么事？”他问道。

“我想让你从我家偷点儿东西，但这不会成为一项罪行。”

“什么？”史密斯很是惊讶。

“在我的家里，就是斯尼德城堡里，有一幅我的画像。我想让人把它偷走。”

“把它偷走？”

“没错。”

“你打算付我多少钱？”

“付钱？”杰先生说，“那是克雷塞奇的画！在美国能卖2000英镑。”

杰先生告诉史密斯那幅肖像的事以及为什么想摆脱它。史密斯想了想，然后说：

“好吧，我会去，为了帮你。”

“你什么时候动手？今晚？”

“不行，”史密斯说，“我今晚很忙。”

“那就明晚。”

“我明天也忙。”

“你还真是个忙人啊。”杰先生说。

“哦，生意就是生意，你知道。”史密斯说，“我后天来。”

“可那天是圣诞前夜。”

“哦，要么是那天，要么就是圣诞节那天。我之后又要忙了。”

“不是在五镇忙吧，我希望。”杰先生说。

“不是，五镇没剩什么可偷的了。”

于是他们商定在圣诞前夜动手。

“现在，”杰先生说，“我来告诉你斯尼德城堡的房间布局。这样你就知道哪里——”

威廉·史密斯看着他大笑起来。“告诉我房间布局？你觉得我是傻子吗？我是个生意人——我比你更了解斯尼德城堡。”

*　　　*　　　*

12月24日下午，杰霍沙法特先生回到斯尼德城堡的时候，他的妻子正在收拾行李。戴恩夫妇要去他们儿子的家里过圣诞节。他们的儿子约翰刚刚结婚生子，所以想在新家和家人共度圣诞。

杰先生没有马上对妻子说什么。他看了妻子一会儿，到了喝茶的时候，他突然说：“我下午不能去约翰家了。”

“哦，杰！”她喊道，“你真 让人扫兴。为什么不早点儿告诉我？”

他没回答这个问题。“我明天早上过去——或许赶得上去教堂。”

“家里没吃的了，佣人们也都放假了，家里没人给你做饭。如果你愿意，我留下来陪你吧。”

“不必了，我能行。”

戴恩夫人去了儿子家，给杰先生留了些冷的饭菜。

杰先生对着他的肖像吃了一顿寂寞的冷餐。城堡里只有他自己，他觉得这很好。佣人们不会醒来听到威廉·史密斯偷东西的声音。杰先生有点儿害怕：引贼入室也许还是有危险的。他又看了看嵌在巨大金画框里的画像。“他会拿走画框吗？”他问自己，“希望他不会，这很沉。一个人恐怕拿不了。”但也许史密斯有帮手。

“再见！”他对自己的画像说。他为威廉·史密斯打开一扇窗户，然后就去睡了。

他没有睡着，而是一直在听。两点左右有些动静，停了一会儿，又继续响起来。史密斯在干活儿了。杰先生悄悄起床，走到窗前，小心地朝窗外看去。有两个人正搬着件又大又方的东西穿过花园。原来史密斯还带了个同伙，而且他把画和画框一起 偷走了。

杰先生躺回床上。他又睡了几个小时，然后下了楼。

画像放在地板上，上面写着几个白色大字：“这个对我没用。”而那个大大的金画框不见了。

丢的还不只这个，盘子、刀叉、勺子、杯子——所有的银器都不见了，城堡里连一把银勺子也没剩下。





Beginning the New Year


We are slow, silent people, we of the Five Towns. Perhaps it is because we make pottery, which is slow, silent work. There are many stories about us and how slow and silent we are. These stories often surprise the rest of the world very much, but we just laugh at them. Here is an example.

Toby Hall was born in Turnhill, the smallest of the Five Towns. Last New Year's Eve he was travelling by train from Crewe to Derby, which was now his home town. He got out of the train at Knype, in the centre of the Five Towns, for a quick drink. The station was busy and he had to wait for his drink. When he returned to the train, it was already moving. Toby was not a young man; he couldn't jump on the train, so he missed it.

He went to speak to the man in the station office. 'Young man,' he asked. 'When's the next train to Derby?'

'There isn't one before tomorrow.'

Toby went and had another drink.

'I'll go to Turnhill,' he said to himself slowly, and he paid for his drink.

This was his first visit to the Five Towns for twenty-three years, but Knype station was still the same, and so were the times of the trains to Turnhill. The train was the same, too.

In twenty minutes he was leaving Turnhill station and walking into the town. He walked past a number of fine new buildings. In the town centre almost everything was different.

He walked on, into smaller streets, and at last came to Child Row. The old houses here were the same as always, and he looked at one small house very carefully. The light was on, so there was somebody at home.

He crossed the street to the house. It was a special house for him (Number 11 it was—and is) because twenty-four years ago it was his home.

*　　　*　　　*

Twenty-four years ago, Toby Hall married Miss Priscilla Bratt, a quiet woman of twenty-three. The house belonged to her. The two young people were perhaps not really in love, but they liked one another. Their only problem was the house. Priscilla often said that the house belonged to her. Toby knew that. Everybody in Turnhill knew that. She didn't have to say it so often. Toby asked her not to, but she didn't stop. He was happy to live in his wife's house, but he didn't want to hear about it every day. And after a year it was too much. One day he put some things in a bag, put on his hat, and went to the door.

'Where are you going?' asked Priscilla.

He stopped for a minute, then answered, 'America.'

And he went. It was not difficult for Priscilla. She did not think that Toby was a very good husband. She could live without him; she had her house and some money.

Toby went to the bank and got all his money, and sailed off to New York on the Adriatic . From New York he went to Trenton, New Jersey, which was the Five Towns of America. Toby was a good potter, and he found work easily. After a year, he asked a friend to write to Priscilla, and tell her that he was dead. He wanted to be a free man, and it was only fair for her to be a free woman.

After a few years he returned to England. He changed his name from Hall, and started work as a potter in Derby. He did well — the money was good, and he didn't have much to spend it on. He lived quietly, working all week and going fishing at the weekends.

And now, because of a visit to Crewe, a train, and a drink, he was in Child Row, and crossing the street to Number 11. He knocked on the door.

*　　　*　　　*

Many doors in the Five Towns open slowly and carefully — and so did this one. It opened a few centimetres, and a woman looked out at Toby.

'Is this Mrs Hall's?' he asked.

'No. It's not Mrs Hall's. It's Mrs Tansley's.'

'I thought...'

The door opened a little more.

'Is that you, Toby?'

'It is,' answered Toby, smiling a little.

'Well, well!' said the woman. 'Well, well!' The door opened a little more. 'Are you coming in, Toby?'

'Yes,' said Toby.

And he went in.

'Sit down,' said his wife. 'I thought you were dead. Someone wrote to me.'

'Yes!' said Toby. 'But I'm not dead.'

He sat down in a comfortable chair by the fire. He knew the chair, and he knew the fire. He put his hat on the table. Priscilla locked the door again and sat down herself. Her dress was black and, like Toby, she was getting a little fat.

'Well, well,' she said. 'So you've come back.'

'Yes.'

They were both silent for a minute.

'The weather's cold, isn't it?' he said.

'Yes. It's been a cold winter.'

Another silence. What were they thinking and feeling? Perhaps they weren't thinking anything very much.

'And what's the news?' he asked.

'News? Oh, nothing special.'

There was a picture above the fire. It was a picture of Priscilla when she was young. It surprised Toby.

'I don't remember that picture,' he said.

'What?'

'That!' He looked up at the picture.

'Oh! That ! That's my daughter.'

'Oh!' Now Toby was surprised.

'I married Job Tansley,' said Priscilla. 'He died four years ago. She's married,' she said, looking up at her daughter's photograph. 'She married young Gibson last September.'

'Well, well!'

They were silent again.

'That's a good fire,' said Toby, looking at it.

'Yes, it is.'

'Good coal.'

'Seventy pence a tonne.'

Again they were silent.

'Is Ned Walklate still at the pub?' Toby asked.

'I think so,' said Priscilla.

'I think I'll go round and have a drink,' said Toby, standing up.

He was unlocking the door when Priscilla said:

'You've forgotten your hat, Toby.'

'No,' he answered. 'I haven't forgotten it. I'm coming back.'

They looked at one another, speaking without words.

'That'll be all right,' she said. 'Well, well!'

'Yes!'

And he walked round to the pub.

miss v. fail to catch (a bus, train, etc.) 未赶上

sail v. travel on water by the use of sails or engine power （船）航行

fair adj. just, unbiased 公正的；公平的

centimetre n. a metric unit of length, equal to one-hundredth of a metre 厘米

pence n. pl. of penny, a British bronze coin and monetary unit equal to one-hundredth of a pound penny 的复数，便士

tonne n. metric ton 公吨

pub n. a public house 酒馆；酒吧

unlock v. release the lock of (a door, box, etc.) 开（锁）





新年伊始


我们是一群慢吞吞而且不爱说话的人，我是说我们五镇的人。也许这是因为我们制陶的缘故，这是个安静的慢活儿。关于我们以及我们到底有多慢、多不爱说话的故事有很多，这些故事经常会让其他地方的人感到不可思议，而我们只是一笑置之。下面就有这样一个例子。

托比·霍尔出生在特恩希尔，这是五镇中最小的一个镇子。去年的新年前夜，他从克鲁坐火车到德比，那儿是他现在的家乡。他在位于五镇中心的克尼普下了车，想喝上一杯。火车站人很多，他不得不排队买喝的。他回去的时候，火车已经开动了。托比不年轻了，他没法跳上火车，只能错过了。

他去问火车站办公室的人。“年轻人，”他问，“下一班去德比的车是几点？”

“明天才有车呢。”

托比又去喝了一杯。

“我要去特恩希尔看看。”他慢慢地自言自语着，付了钱。

这是他23年来第一次回五镇，不过克尼普车站一点儿都没变，开往特恩希尔的列车时刻表也没变，连火车也和原来的一样。

20分钟后，他走出特恩希尔站，来到了镇上。他路过好几座漂亮的新房子。镇中心的一切都变了模样。

他继续往前走，穿过几条窄街，最后拐到儿童路。这里的老房子和从前一样，他细细地打量着一座小房子。灯亮着，一定有人在家。

他过了马路，走到房子跟前。这座房子对他来讲很特别（过去是11号——现在也是），因为24年前这里是他的家。

*　　　*　　　*

24年前，托比·霍尔和23岁的普丽西拉·布拉特小姐，一个文静的姑娘结了婚。房子是她的。两个年轻人也许并非倾心相爱，不过他们喜欢着对方。他们之间唯一的问题就是房子。普丽西拉经常唠叨房子是她的，托比明白这一点，特恩希尔的人也都知道，她没必要天天把这事挂在嘴边。托比让她不要再说了，但她不听。他很高兴住在妻子的房子里，但他不想天天听妻子唠叨这事。这样的日子在一年之后变得难以忍受了。一天，他收拾好行囊，戴上帽子，走到门口。

“你去哪儿？”普丽西拉问道。

他顿了一下，然后回答说：“美国。”

他就这样走了。这对普丽西拉来说没什么大不了的，她觉得托比不是个特别好的丈夫，没有托比，她照样能生活：她有自己的房子，还有些钱。

托比到银行取出他所有的钱，搭“亚得里亚蒂克”号船去了纽约。从纽约他又去了新泽西州的塔伦顿，那儿是美国的五镇。托比是个好陶匠，找起工作来很容易。一年之后，他请一个朋友写信告诉普丽西拉他死了。托比想要成为自由人，所以只有让普丽西拉也得到自由才算公平。

几年之后，托比回到了英格兰。他把霍尔这个名字也改了，开始在德比当陶匠。他做得很出色——薪水也不错，而且他没有太多需要花钱的地方。他的生活很安宁，每天工作，周末就去钓鱼。

现在，因为去克鲁，一趟列车，还有喝了一杯的缘故，他来到了儿童路，穿过街道站在11号的门前。他敲了敲门。

*　　　*　　　*

在五镇，许多人家开门时都慢吞吞的，而且很小心——这家也不例外。门打开了一道缝，一个女人从里面瞧着托比。

“是霍尔太太的家吗？”他问道。

“不，这不是霍尔太太的家，是坦斯利太太的家。”

“我以为……”

门又打开了些。

“是你吗，托比？”

“是啊。”托比答道，笑了一下。

“哎呀，哎呀！”妇人叹道，“哎呀，哎呀！”门又打开些，“进来坐坐吗，托比？”

“好啊。”托比回答。

于是他进了屋。

“坐吧，”他的妻子说道，“我以为你已经死了，因为有人写信这么告诉我。”

“没错！”托比说，“不过我还活着。”

托比在壁炉旁一把舒服的椅子上坐了下来。他熟悉这把椅子，也熟悉这壁炉。他把帽子放在桌上。普丽西拉锁好门，也坐了下来。她穿着黑衣服，而且和托比一样，有点儿发胖了。

“哎呀，哎呀，”她说道，“这么说你已经回来了。”

“是的。”

他们沉默了一阵。

“天气真冷啊，是吧？”他说。

“是啊，今年冬天真冷。”

又是一阵沉默。他们在想着什么，又是怎样的感觉呢？也许他们什么也没有多想。

“有什么新闻吗？”他问。

“新闻？哦，没什么特别的。”

壁炉上方挂着一张照片，是年轻时的普丽西拉。这让托比很惊讶。

“我不记得那张照片。”他说。

“什么？”

“那个！”他抬起头看着那幅照片。

“哦！那个 ！那是我的女儿。”

“哦！”托比吃了一惊。

“我嫁给了乔布·坦斯利，”普丽西拉说，“他四年前过世了。我女儿已经结婚了，”她边说边抬头看着女儿的照片，“她去年9月嫁给了小吉布森。”

“哎呀，哎呀！”

他们又陷入沉默。

“这火烧得真旺。”托比望着炉火说道。

“是啊。”

“好煤。”

“70便士一吨。”

他们又沉默下来。

“内德·沃克拉特还在酒馆吗？”托比问。

“我想是的。”普丽西拉说。

“我想出去走走，去喝一杯。”托比说着站起身来。

托比开门的时候，普丽西拉说道：

“你忘记拿帽子了，托比。”

“不，”他回答，“我没忘。我还要回来。”

他们看着对方，无声地交流着。

“好吧，”她回答，“哎呀，哎呀！”

“好的！”

于是托比向酒馆走去。





The Silent Brothers


John and Robert Hessian, brothers and bachelors, sat together after supper in their house in Oldcastle Street, Bursley. Both brothers were wearing black, because of the death of their older sister three months ago.

Maggie, the servant, came in to take the supper things off the table.

'Leave the coffee, Maggie,' said John, the elder brother, 'Mr Liversage is coming to visit.'

'Yes, Mr John,' said Maggie.

'Slate, Maggie,' said Robert.

'Yes, Mr Robert,' said Maggie.

The slate was on a table near the fire. Maggie gave it, and its pencil, to Robert.

Robert wrote: Why is Liversage coming?

And he pushed the slate across the table to John.

John wrote on the slate: I don't know. He telephoned. He said he wanted to see us tonight.

And he pushed the slate back to Robert.

John was forty-two years old, and Robert thirty-nine. They were tall, dark men, and both were well and strong. And there was nothing wrong with their hearing.

Ten years before, the brothers had a quarrel. The quarrel was a stupid one, like many quarrels. The morning after, Robert did not answer when John said something to him. 'Well,' said John to himself. 'If he doesn't speak, I won't speak.' And then Robert thought the same thing.

Maggie was the first to see that the brothers were not speaking. Then it was their best friend, Mr Liversage, the solicitor, and some of their other friends. But nobody said anything to them. The people of Bursley thought it was funny, and wanted to know which brother would win the quarrel. So Bursley watched the two men carefully, waiting for one of them to speak. But for ten years the brothers went on living together in the same house, and neither man spoke a single word to the other.

Life without words was very difficult for the brothers, but it was also difficult for their servant. Maggie gave them the slate, because it was easier for her when the brothers wrote things down. It was difficult for their friends too. They began to be a little bored when, at parties, each Hessian talked to everybody in the room — but not to his brother.

There was just one thing wrong with this beautiful quarrel. The brothers worked together in the same pottery factory, and sometimes they needed to speak on business. But they spoke very coldly, and only inside the factory walls. And every evening Bursley watched the two brothers while they walked home, one man five metres behind the other. How stupid it was! But Bursley said nothing.

The conversation by slate that evening was just finishing, when there was a knock at the door, and Mr Powell Liversage came in. He was an old friend of the two from their schooldays. He was also a bachelor, so his evenings were free. He came to see the Hessians every Saturday night, and usually John or Robert went to see him on Wednesdays. But today was Thursday.

'How are you?' asked John, lighting a cigarette.

'Well,' replied Liversage.

'How are you, Powell?' asked Robert.

'Not too bad. And you?'

He sat down and Robert gave him a cup of coffee.

'Well,' said Liversage, after a minute. He sounded a little uncomfortable. 'We've found your sister's will at last.'

'You haven't! When?' asked John.

'This afternoon. It was with some old papers in the bank. Did you know that she had more than twelve thousand pounds?'

'No!' said Robert.

The brothers knew that their sister, Mrs Mary Bott, was rich. They knew that she had no children, and they knew, of course, that they were her only brothers. When she died three months ago, nobody could find her will. And now here it was! Twelve thousand pounds between two people was a lot of money for each of them. But what did the will say?

The two men wanted to know very much, but did they ask the question? Oh no! Neither man wanted to be the first to speak. And so they sat in silence.

'Do you want me to read the will to you?' asked Liversage at last.

'Yes,' they both answered.

Liversage took the will out of his pocket. 'Now, I didn't make this will,' he said, 'so please don't get angry with me.' This is what he read.

You are both very stupid, John and Robert, and I've often said so. Nobody understands why you quarrelled like that about Annie Emery. Your life is difficult, but you've also been very unkind to Annie. She's waited ten years already. So, John, if you marry Annie Emery, I shall give all my money to you. And Robert, if you marry her, I shall give it all to you. And you must be married in twelve months' time. And if neither of you marry her, then I give all my money to Miss Annie Emery, businesswoman, of Duck Bank, Bursley.

Mary Ann Bott, widow

'There. That's all,' Liversage finished.

'Let me see,' said John. Liversage gave him the will and he looked at it carefully.

Robert walked around the table and looked at the paper in his brother's hand.

All three men were silent for a few minutes. Each was afraid to speak, and even afraid to look at the others.

'Well, I must go,' said Liversage, standing up.

'I say,' said Robert. 'You won't say anything about this to Annie, will you?'

'I will say nothing,' agreed Liversage. (But it was wrong of him to say this, because Annie already knew.)

The two brothers sat and thought for a long time. Ten years before, when Annie was a woman of twenty-three, without family, she started a business for herself, which was a bookshop. John was in love with her, but so was Robert. And the two men quarrelled. They said very unkind, very unbrotherly things, and they were both very angry. Because of this (and because they were stupid), they each decided not to marry Annie. Each man wanted to show the other that he was the better, kinder, nicer brother. And so they did not speak for ten years. And poor Annie Emery, who wanted to marry one of the two (but could not decide which), did not marry anyone.

At two o'clock in the morning, John took a penny out of his pocket.

'Who shall go first?' he asked.

Robert felt very strange. His elder brother was speaking to him for the first time for ten years. For a minute he couldn't speak. John tossed the penny and put his hand over it.

'Heads or tails?' he asked.

'Tails,' said Robert.

But it was heads.

On Friday evening John knocked on the side door of Annie Emery's shop. While he stood there, he began to feel afraid. He still wanted to marry Annie, that was true. But how could he explain the last ten years? He began to hope that Annie was not there.

But the door opened, and there she was.

'Mr Hessian!' she cried, with a bright smile.

'I was just walking down Duck Bank,' he said. 'And I thought...'

And in fifteen seconds he was inside the house, sitting down.

'But you're in the middle of eating your supper,' he said. He could see the food ready on the table.

'I haven't started,' she replied. 'Have you had your supper?'

'No,' he said.

'It will be nice of you to help me eat my supper, then,' said she.

'Oh! No...'

But she got plates and glasses out of the cupboard — and there he was, sitting at her table! He could not say no. It was wonderful.

'I'm doing well,' he thought. 'Poor Robert!'

He watched her while she moved about the room. He still did not know how to explain the ten silent years, but perhaps he didn't have to say anything. She was friendly, smiling, and pleased to see him, wasn't she? And she was still a beautiful woman — and also a good businesswoman.

He stayed, and they talked. He decided to ask her to marry him in a few days. Fifteen minutes later he thought about asking her the next day. And in another five minutes he was asking her to marry him, then and there.

She moved away from him quickly.

'It's very sudden. I must think about it,' she answered.

How happy he was! Her answer would soon be yes, he was sure.

'Will you be at church on Sunday?' she asked.

'Yes.'

'If my answer is yes, I shall wear white flowers in my hat. I prefer to give you my answer like that, without words. And if I am not at church next week, I will be the week after.'

'I understand,' he said. 'And if I do see those flowers, perhaps I can come to tea?'

'Yes. But you mustn't speak to me when I come out of church.'

He walked home down Oldcastle Street. He was a happy man — and he felt much younger than his forty-two years.

*　　　*　　　*

She was not at church on Sunday. Robert was away on business most of the week, and John was alone in the house. For many hours he sat at home, thinking about the next Sunday. Robert returned home on Friday.

On Sunday morning, John was up early. He put on his new shirt, which came from the best shop in Hanbridge. Robert was also out of bed early, and he was wearing a new shirt and a new suit. They had a silent breakfast.

'I'm going to church this morning, Maggie,' said Robert, finishing his breakfast. 'Where are my new shoes?'

This was a surprise. Robert did not usually go to church.

They walked to church, with John fifty metres in front of his brother. When he came into the church, Miss Emery was not there. The service was beginning when she walked in. She was wearing white flowers on her hat! There were about a hundred and fifty-five white flowers—her hat was like a garden.

How excited John was! He had Annie, and he had his sister's money. He felt very happy, and he decided to give five thousand pounds to Robert. Perhaps even a little more.

After the service John did not speak to Annie, but hurried home. Robert also went home, and then the two had their lunch. They didn't speak, of course; they read their newspapers.

After lunch they went out for a walk; not together, of course. John walked because he had to do something until his tea with Annie at half past four. And at half past four he turned the corner into Duck Bank — and saw Robert, who was coming round the corner at the other end of Duck Bank. They met outside Annie's door.

'What are you doing here?' asked Robert angrily.

'I'm coming to see Annie,' replied John, also very angry.

'So am I!'

'Well, you're too late,' said John. 'I've asked her to marry me. And she has said yes.'

'Don't be stupid,' replied Robert. 'She's marrying me!'

'When did you ask her?' asked John.

'On Friday.'

'And did she say yes?'

'Not on Friday. But her answer was to wear white flowers at church this morning.'

'That was for me!' said John.

The quarrel went on for some time.

'Come on,' said John. 'Let's go home. We can't talk in the street. Annie will see us from her window.'

They walked home quickly. And the quarrel went on at home all afternoon. It got noisier and angrier, and at six o'clock Maggie came into the room. She told the brothers that they must stop fighting at once. She then told them that she was leaving their house for ever.

*　　　*　　　*

'Why did you do it, my pet?' asked Powell Liversage.

He and Annie Emery were sitting in the garden of his house in Trafalgar Road.

'Why did I do it?' asked Annie. 'Oh, they were so stupid, Powell. I know they're your friends, but really! For ten years they said nothing to me, and then, because of their sister's money, they come to see me. And Powell, they were so stupid. They really thought that I liked them. I wanted them to meet at my house because I wanted to tell them what I thought of them. But I was watching from my bedroom window when they met in the street. They started to quarrel again, and then they went away.'

'They'll be angry with me, I'm afraid,' said Powell. 'When they find out that we're going to get married. They'll say I want to marry you for the...'

'I don't want the money, dear,' said Annie. 'They can keep their twelve thousand pounds.'

Powell was a little sorry to hear this, but he said, 'Yes, of course, dearest,' and took Annie's hand.

Just then Powell's mother, who lived with him, came down the garden.

'Powell,' she said. 'John Hessian's here. He wants to see you.'

'I must go,' said Annie. 'I'll go across the fields. Good night, Mrs Liversage. Good night, Powell.'

Liversage went into the house and found John.

'Powell,' he said. 'I've quarrelled with Robert. I can't stay at home. Can I sleep in your spare room?'

'Of course, John, of course.'

'I think I'll go to bed now, if that's all right.'

An hour later there was another knock at the door, and Liversage opened the door to Robert Hessian.

'Hallo, Powell,' said Robert. 'Can I sleep here tonight? I've had a terrible quarrel with John, and Maggie's gone, and I can't stay in the same house as John.'

'But what —'

'Look, I can't talk. I'll go up to your spare room.'

'All right,' said Liversage.

He took Robert up the stairs, opened the door to the spare room, pushed him in, and closed the door.

What a night!

bachelor n. an unmarried man 单身汉

slate n. a small blackboard or a flat piece of slate in a wooden frame used for writing on （书写用的）石板

hearing n. the faculty of perceiving sounds 听力；听觉

quarrel n. a violent contention or altercation between individuals or with others 争吵

solicitor n. a member of the legal profession qualified to deal with conveyancing, draw up wills, etc. advise clients and instruct barristers, and represent clients in the lower courts 初级律师；诉状律师

light v. set burning, ignite 点燃

there int. expressing confirmation, triumph, dismay, etc. 好啦！

I say an exclamation expressing surprise, drawing attention, etc. 我说；听着

unbrotherly adj. not brotherly, not friendly 不友爱的

heads n. the side of a coin bearing the image of a head （铸有头像的）硬币正面

tails n. the reverse of a coin as a choice when tossing 硬币反面

side door a door in or at the side of a building 侧门

then and there immediately and on the spot 在当时当地；立即

suit n. a set of outer clothes of matching material for men （一套）衣服

service n. a ceremony of worship according to prescribed forms 宗教仪式；礼拜式

spare adj. reserved for emergency or occasional use 备用的





互不说话的兄弟


约翰·赫斯和罗伯特·赫斯两兄弟都是单身汉。他们晚餐后一起坐在伯斯利古堡大街的房子里。兄弟俩都穿着黑衣，因为他们的姐姐三个月前刚刚去世。

女佣玛吉进来收拾餐桌。

“把咖啡留下，玛吉，”哥哥约翰说道，“利弗西奇先生要来。”

“是，约翰先生。”玛吉说道。

“把写字板拿过来，玛吉。”罗伯特说。

“是，罗伯特先生。”玛吉说道。

写字板放在壁炉旁的一张桌子上。玛吉把写字板和附带的铅笔递给罗伯特。

罗伯特写道：利弗西奇为什么要来？

他把写字板推到约翰面前。

约翰在上面写：我不知道。他打电话说今晚想见我们。

他把写字板又推回到罗伯特面前。

约翰42岁，罗伯特39岁。他们身材高大，有着深色的皮肤，身强体壮，听力也没有问题。

十年前，两兄弟有过一场争吵。这场争吵像许多争吵一样愚蠢可笑。第二天早上，当约翰对罗伯特说话的时候，罗伯特没有回答。“好吧，”约翰自言自语说，“如果他不跟我说话，我也不理他。”后来罗伯特也这样想了。

玛吉是第一个发现兄弟俩不说话的人。接着是他们最好的朋友，律师利弗西奇先生，还有其他一些朋友。但是没人劝过他们。伯斯利镇的人觉得这很好笑，想知道兄弟俩谁能赢得这场争吵，所以镇上的人静观其变，等着他们中的一个先开口。但是十年来虽然兄弟俩仍然住在同一屋檐下，但谁都没和对方说过一个字。

这样的生活对兄弟俩来讲可不好过，对他们的佣人来讲也是如此。玛吉给了他们一个写字板，因为如果兄弟俩把事情写下来，她做起事来就容易些。对朋友们来讲，这种生活也挺麻烦的。在聚会上，赫斯兄弟和房间里的每个人都说话——唯独不理会自己的兄弟，这个时候朋友们开始有点儿厌烦了。

这场完美的争吵只有一个缺憾。兄弟俩在同一家陶瓷厂上班，有时他们需要谈公事。不过他们交谈时非常冷漠，而且仅仅是在工厂里。每天晚上，伯斯利镇的人都目送兄弟俩回家，一个在前，一个在后，相距有5米远。这多蠢啊！但是伯斯利镇的人什么也没说。

写字板上的对话刚刚结束就传来了敲门声，鲍威尔·利弗西奇先生走了进来。他和兄弟俩是从学生时代就认识的老朋友了。他也是个单身汉，因此晚上有空闲时间。利弗西奇每星期六晚上来赫斯兄弟家串门，而罗伯特或约翰通常在星期三去看他。可今天是星期四啊。

“你好吗？”约翰点了一根香烟问道。

“不错。”利弗西奇回答道。

“你好吗，鲍威尔？”罗伯特问道。

“还可以，你呢？”

利弗西奇坐了下来，罗伯特递给他一杯咖啡。

“唔，”过了一会儿，利弗西奇说道，他听起来有点儿不自在，“我们终于找到了你们姐姐的遗嘱。”

“真的！什么时候？”约翰问。

“今天下午。遗嘱和其他一些旧文件存在银行里。你们知道她的财产超过12,000英镑吗？”

“不知道！”罗伯特回答。

兄弟俩知道他们的姐姐，玛丽·博特太太十分富有；他们知道她没有子女；他们当然也知道自己是她唯一的亲人。她三个月前去世的时候，谁也找不到她的遗嘱。现在找到了！两个人分12,000英镑，这对他们俩来说都是一大笔钱。但遗嘱究竟写了些什么？

两人都非常想知道，但是他们问了吗？哦，没有！他们都不愿意第一个说。于是他们沉默地坐在那里。

“想让我读遗嘱给你们听吗？”利弗西奇最后问道。

“是的。”他俩一同答道。

利弗西奇从口袋里拿出了遗嘱。“现在我想说，我并不是写遗嘱的人，”他说，“所以请别生我的气。”下面是他宣读的内容。

约翰和罗伯特，你们两个都很愚蠢，我从前也经常这么说。真不明白你们为什么要为安妮·埃默里吵成现在这个样子。不单你们的生活不好过，你们也深深地伤害了安妮。她已经等了十年。所以，约翰，如果你和安妮·埃默里结婚，我会把财产全部给你；罗伯特，如果你和她结婚，我就把财产都给你。你们必须在一年之内结婚。如果你们两个都没和她结婚，那么我将把财产留给伯斯利鸭子岸的商人安妮·埃默里小姐。

寡妇玛丽·安·博特

“好了，就是这些。”利弗西奇念完了遗嘱。

“让我看看。”约翰说。利弗西奇把遗嘱递给了他，约翰仔细地看着。

罗伯特绕过桌子，也去看约翰手中的遗嘱。

三个人沉默了几分钟。谁都不愿说话，甚至不愿看别人一眼。

“好了，我必须走了。”利弗西奇说着站了起来。

“我说，”罗伯特说，“你不会对安妮说这件事，对吧？”

“我不会。”利弗西奇说。（但他根本不该这么回答，因为安妮已经知道了。）

兄弟俩坐在那里考虑了很久。十年之前，安妮还是个23岁的姑娘，没有成家。她自己开了一家书店。约翰爱上了她，罗伯特也爱上了她，所以这两个人吵了起来。他们都说了一些非常恶毒的、有悖兄弟之情的话，两人都很生气。因为这个（还因为他们都很愚蠢），他们都决定不 和安妮结婚。两人都想让对方觉得自己 是兄弟俩中更好、更善良、更和气的一个。于是他们十年没有说话。可怜的安妮·埃默里本来打算嫁给两兄弟中的一个（但是无法决定是哪个），却谁也没有嫁。

深夜两点钟的时候，约翰从口袋里掏出了一枚一便士的硬币。

“谁先去？”他问。

罗伯特感觉怪怪的。哥哥十年来第一次和他说话。他一时不知如何回答。约翰抛出硬币，然后用手盖住了它。

“正面还是背面？”他问。

“背面。”罗伯特回答。

但结果是正面。

星期五晚上，约翰敲响了安妮·埃默里书店的侧门。他站在那里的时候，开始觉得有些胆怯。他仍然想娶安妮，这一点毫无疑问，但是他如何解释过去十年的事呢？他开始希望安妮不在书店了。

然而门开了，安妮就站在他眼前。

“赫斯先生！”她大声说道，露出了灿烂的笑容。

“我正好经过鸭子岸，”他说，“我想……”

15秒钟后，他已经在屋子里面坐了下来。

“可你正在吃晚餐呢。”约翰说，他看到食物已经摆上了餐桌。

“我还没开始吃呢，”她回答，“你吃晚饭了吗？”

“没有。”他说。

“那么如果你能帮我吃掉这顿晚餐就太好了。”她说。

“哦！不……”

但她已经从橱柜里拿出了盘子和杯子——而他就坐在这里，坐在她的餐桌旁！他无法拒绝，这感觉棒极了。

“进展顺利，”他暗自想，“可怜的罗伯特！”

他看着她在屋子里走动。他仍然不知道该如何解释过去那沉默的十年，也许他什么也不必解释。安妮很友好，笑盈盈的，而且很高兴见到他，不是吗？她仍然是个漂亮女人——还是个出色的女商人。

他留下来和安妮一起吃了晚餐，他们攀谈起来。他决定几天之后向安妮求婚。15分钟后，他想明天就向她求婚。而又过了5分钟，他已经向她求婚了。

她很快从他面前退开。

“这太突然了。我必须考虑一下。”她答道。

约翰是多么开心啊！安妮很快就会答应他，这一点他确信无疑。

“星期天你会去教堂吗？”安妮问道。

“会的。”

“如果我答应你的话，就会在帽子上戴白色的花。与其用言语，我更愿意这样回答你。如果我下星期没去教堂，那我下下星期会去的。”

“我明白，”他说，“那么如果看到了那些花，我是不是可以来喝茶？”

“可以。不过我从教堂出来的时候，你不要和我说话。”

他顺着古堡大街走回家。他很高兴——他感觉自己年轻了不少，不像42岁。

*　　　*　　　*

她星期日没有来教堂。罗伯特这周的大部分时间都在外出差，只有约翰自己在家。他一连几个小时地坐在家里，想着下个星期天的事情。星期五罗伯特回来了。

星期日一大早，约翰就起床了。他穿上了新衬衫，这是从汉桥最好的店买来的。罗伯特起得也很早，也穿上了新的衬衫和西装。两人在早餐时没有说话。

“我今天早上要去教堂，玛吉，”罗伯特吃完了早餐，说道，“我的新鞋子在哪儿？”

这可异乎寻常，罗伯特不常去教堂。

他们向教堂走去，约翰走在前面，离弟弟有50米远。他到教堂的时候，埃默里小姐还没来。她来时，礼拜已经开始了。她的帽子上戴着白色的花！大约有155朵白花——她的帽子就像个花园。

约翰是多么激动啊！他得到了安妮，也得到了姐姐的遗产。他非常开心，决定分给罗伯特5000英镑，也许还会更多。

礼拜过后，约翰没和安妮说话，而是匆忙回家了。罗伯特也回了家，两人一起吃了午餐。当然，他们并没有说话，他们在各自看报纸。

午餐过后，他们出去散步，当然不是一起。约翰散步是因为在4点半和安妮喝茶之前他必须做点儿什么。4点半的时候，他转过街角来到了鸭子岸——看到罗伯特从鸭子岸的另一头转过来。他们在安妮家的门口碰面了。

“你来这里做什么？”罗伯特生气地问。

“我来看安妮。”约翰也气哼哼地答道。

“我也是！”

“哦，你来晚了，”约翰说，“我已经向她求婚了，而且她答应了我。”

“别傻了，”罗伯特说，“她要嫁的人是我！”

“你什么时候向她求婚的？”约翰问道。

“星期五。”

“她答应了？”

“周五没有答应。不过今早她在教堂戴着白色的花，那就是答应我了。”

“那是为我戴的！”约翰说。

争吵持续了一段时间。

“好了，”约翰说，“我们回家吧。我们不能在街上说。安妮会从窗户里看到我们的。”

他们很快走回了家，又在家吵了整整一个下午。争吵声越来越大，越来越激烈。6点钟的时候，玛吉走进了房间。她告诉兄弟俩他们必须马上停止争吵，然后说她要永远地离开这里。

*　　　*　　　*

“你为什么这么做，我的宝贝？”鲍威尔·利弗西奇问道。

他和安妮·埃默里坐在特拉法尔加路自家的花园里。

“我为什么这么做？”安妮反问，“哦，他们都是傻瓜，鲍威尔。我知道他们是你的朋友，但事实如此！十年来，他们对我不闻不问，而现在为了他们姐姐的遗产，他们都来找我了。鲍威尔，他们真傻。他们真的以为我喜欢他们。我让他们在我家碰面，是想告诉他们我对他们的看法。但是我从卧室的窗子里看见他们在街上碰到，而且又吵了起来，然后就走了。”

“恐怕他们要生我的气了，”鲍威尔说，“他们如果知道我们要结婚，会说我娶你是为了……”

“我不想要那笔钱，亲爱的，”安妮说，“他们可以留着那12,000英镑。”

鲍威尔听了这话有些许遗憾，不过他还是说：“好吧，当然，最亲爱的。”然后拉起了安妮的手。

这时鲍威尔的母亲来到了花园，她和鲍威尔住在一起。

“鲍威尔，”她说，“约翰·赫斯来了，他要见你。”

“我得走了，”安妮说，“我从田野穿过去。晚安，利弗西奇夫人。晚安，鲍威尔。”

利弗西奇进屋见到了约翰。

“鲍威尔，”他说，“我和罗伯特吵架了，我不能待在家里了。我能在这儿的客房里睡一晚吗？”

“当然，约翰，当然。”

“我想我现在要睡了，如果可以的话。”

一个小时以后，又有人敲门，利弗西奇打开门发现是罗伯特·赫斯。

“你好，鲍威尔，”罗伯特说，“今晚能在你这儿睡吗？我和约翰大吵了一架，玛吉也走了。我不能和约翰待在一个房子里了。”

“但什么——”

“看，我不能多说了。我上楼去你的客房。”

“好吧。”利弗西奇说。

他把罗伯特带上楼，打开客房的门，把他推了进去，然后关上门。

这是个怎样的夜晚啊！





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1．Read the introduction of the book. What can you guess about the stories? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) The Five Towns are in England.

YES □／NO □

2) The stories happen in the early 1900s.

YES □／NO □

3) The people in the stories are all happy.

YES □／NO □

4) The people in the stories are all poor.

YES □／NO □

5) The Five Towns are very dangerous.

YES □／NO □

2．Read the introduction of the book. How much do you know now about the stories? Match the people with information.

Sir Jee/Philip/Toby Hall/John and Robert Hessian

1) ... are brothers.

2) ... has a picture of himself.

3) ... makes a journey by train.

4) ... is rich.

5) ... is going to tell his mother something important.

6) ... don't talk to each other.

7) ... is going to visit a house in Child Row.

8) ... have a problem about money.





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1．Read News of the Engagement . Here are some untrue sentences about the story. Change them into true sentences.

1) Philip asked Agnes to marry him and she said no.

2) In his letters, Philip told his mother he was going to marry Agnes.

3) When Philip opened the door, Agnes was there.

4) Philip didn't like Mr Nixon.

5) When Philip came home from the post office, his mother was alone in the sitting-room.

6) Mr Nixon wanted to marry Agnes.

7) Philip was unhappy about his mother's news.

8) Philip told his mother about Agnes that evening.

2．Read The Burglary . Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Rewrite the false ones with the correct information.

1) Sir Jee liked his portrait.

2) The people of the Five Towns gave the portrait to Sir Jee.

3) The police said that William Smith was a burglar.

4) William Smith went to prison for five years.

5) Sir Jee asked William Smith to steal the portrait.

6) Sir Jee opened one of the doors for William Smith.

7) William Smith took the portrait and left the frame.

3．Read Beginning the New Year . Choose the best question word for these questions, and then answer them.

Why/What/Where/When/Who

1) ... did Toby Hall miss his train?

2) ... was Number 11 Child Row a special house for Toby?

3) ... did Toby marry Priscilla?

4) ... did the house belong to?

5) ... did Toby go when he left Priscilla?

6) ... wrote to Priscilla and told her that Toby was dead?

7) ... did Toby do when he came back to England?

8) ... did Priscilla marry when she heard that Toby was dead?

9) ... was in the picture above the fire?

10) ... did Toby leave in the house when he went to the pub?

4．Read The Silent Brothers . Who said these words in the story, and to whom?

1) 'We've found your sister's will at last.'

2) 'I will say nothing.'

3) 'Who shall go first?'

4) 'It's very sudden. I must think about it.'

5) 'I'm going to church this morning.'

6) 'I don't want the money, dear.'





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


News of the Engagement

1．Philip wrote to Agnes on 23rd December and told her his mother's news. Match these parts of sentences and use the linking words to make a paragraph of five sentences. Then add two sentences, one at the beginning and one at the end of the letter, and the opening and closing words.

and/because/but/that/when/when

1) ______ posted a letter to you.

2) ______ I wasn't pleased to see him

3) He told me

4) After supper, I went to the post office

5) ______ I arrived home last night,

6) Mr Nixon was still there.

7) ______ I wanted to tell mother about our engagement.

8) my mother looked excited.

9) Our old friend Mr Nixon came to supper,

10) ______ he wanted to marry my mother!

11) ______ I came home again,

The Burglary

2．A policeman asked Sir Jee some questions about the burglary, but Sir Jee didn't tell the truth about everything. Complete the conversation. Use as many words as you like.

POLICEMAN: Who was in the house last night?

SIR JEE: I ______.

POLICEMAN: HOW did the burglar get into the castle?

SIR JEE: Through ______.

POLICEMAN: Did you hear anything in the night?

SIR JEE: No, ______.

POLICEMAN: Did you see anything?

SIR JEE: No, ______.

POLICEMAN: What did the burglar take?

SIR JEE: ______.

POLICEMAN: What happened to the portrait?

SIR JEE: ______.

The policeman thought that Sir Jee's story was very strange. He made some notes about other questions to ask. Use these words to make four more questions. Then write a fifth question of your own.

Why

1) you/alone/castle/Christmas Eve?

2) window open/cold night/December?

3) burglar/make noise/heavy portrait frame?

4) burglar/write/portrait?

Beginning the New Year

3．Priscilla wrote to her daughter to tell her about Toby Hall. Complete her letter with these words. (Use one word in each gap.)

America, daughter, dead, die, father, happier, happy, house, left, letter, liked, live, lonely, married, marry, news, potter, tell, unhappy, years

My Dear Daughter,

I have to ______ you some surprising ______. Before I married your father, I ______ a man called Toby Hall. That was twenty-four ______ ago. Toby wasn't ______ because he had to live in my house, so one day he ______ me and went to ______. I wasn't too ______, because I still had my ______ and my money. A year later I got a ______ which said that Toby was ______. So when your father asked me to ______ him, I said yes. We were very happy together, and we had you, our dear ______. But now your ______ is dead and Toby has come back. He didn't ______ in America; he came back to England and worked in Derby as a ______. He wants to ______ here with me again. I think we can be ______ this time. I am ______ without you, and I have always ______ Toby.

With love from

Your mother

4．Here is a new illustration for one of the stories. Find the best place to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in the story ______.

1) Who are the two men in the picture?

2) Who is the woman looking out of the window?

3) Why are the two men angry?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

The Silent Brothers

5．Imagine that Powell Liversage didn't take Robert up to his spare room. Write out their conversation in the correct order and put in the speakers' names. Powell speaks first (number 5).

1) ______ 'He said that he couldn't stay in the same house as you. What's happened?'

2) ______ 'Why not?'

3) ______ 'Of course I can. She loves me and I love her.'

4) ______ 'Oh, no, you don't. You just want the twelve thousand pounds.'

5) ______ 'You can't stay here, Robert.'

6) ______ 'You! Powell, you can't marry Annie.'

7) ______ 'That's not true. Annie says you and John can have the money. She doesn't want it.'

9) ______ 'Well, I'm afraid she isn't going to marry you, and she isn't going to marry John. She's going to marry me.'

10) ______ 'Why is John in your spare room?'

11) ______ 'Annie said she was going to marry me, but John says she's going to marry him, so we quarrelled.'

6．Here are some new titles for the stories. Which titles go with which stories? Which titles do you prefer? Why?

1 News of the Engagement

2 The Burglary

3 Beginning the New Year

4 The Silent Brothers

Return from the Dead

A Clever Businesswoman

Two Husbands

Like Mother, Like Son

Unhappy Christmas

A New Father

An Unlucky Portrait

Twelve Thousand Pounds

The Missed Train

Mrs Bott's Will

A Dangerous Plan

Happy Christmas

7．What did you think about the people in these stories? Were they nice or nasty, clever or stupid? Did you feel sorry for anyboby? Choose some names, and complete some of these sentences.

Philip/Philip's mother/Mr Nixon

Sir Jee/William Smith/Lady Dain

Toby Hall/Priscilla

John Hessian/Robert Hessian/Annie Emery/

Powell Liversage/Maggie

1) I feel sorry for ______ because ______.

2) I think ______ was right/wrong to ______.

3) I think ______ did a very bad/nice thing.

4) I think ______ did a very clever/stupid thing.

5) I think ______ was stupider/nicer/nastier than ______.

京权图字 01-2006-3284

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

法兰克福的耳环：英汉对照／（英）赖特（Wright, R.）著；于晓皖译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2006.6（2014.1 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Ear-Rings from Frankfurt

ISBN 978-7-5600-5531-2

Ⅰ．法…　Ⅱ．①赖…　②于…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②短篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2006）第037882号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军　张志纯

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2006年6月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-5531-2

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519

内容简介

你有兄弟或姐妹吗？他们有时会给你的生活带来很多烦心事。要是他们比你年纪小的话，他们就总是会惹麻烦，要你来帮忙。

如果你知道了一个人的缺点，便会难以忘掉。俗话说：“一日为贼，终生为贼。”但真的是这样吗？一次错误会使一个人永远是一个坏人吗？人们就不能有所改变吗？

珍妮弗·沃尔顿是一名护士，她是个文静、细心而又通情达理的人，却有一个既不细心也不通情达理的弟弟，名叫理查德。他总是向人借钱，干任何工作都没有长性，并且和警方扯上了麻烦。珍妮弗对他非常担心。一天，当警察前来询问有关他的情况时，珍妮弗想到了最坏的可能。

EAR-RINGS FROM FRANKFURT

Do you have any brothers or sisters? They can sometimes make your life very difficult. If they are younger than you, then they are always getting into trouble and needing your help.

And if you know something bad about a person, it is difficult to forget it. 'Once a thief, always a thief,' people say. But is that true? Does one mistake make a person bad for ever? Can't people change?

Jennifer Walton is a nurse. She is quiet and careful and sensible, but she has a young brother, Richard. Richard is not careful or sensible. He is always borrowing money, he never keeps a job for long, he's been in trouble with the police. Jennifer worries about him a lot. And when one day the police come asking questions about him, Jennifer fears the worst.

1A night out at Maxim's

A night out at Maxim's

Jennifer looked at the clock on the waiting-room wall. Nearly half-past eight. The light was still on in Doctor Gibson's room. I'm going to be late, she said to herself, why doesn't he hurry up? The evening surgery was always busy on Thursdays but tonight was worse than usual.

She quickly put the newspapers in a cupboard. Then she took off her white coat and locked it in the cupboard too. She was turning off the lights when someone rang the front doorbell. Oh no, not another patient, not at this hour. She ran to the door and opened it. Outside it was dark but she could see a man, his hands deep in his pockets. He moved his head and the light fell on his face.

'Richard!' she cried in surprise. 'What are you doing here?'

'Can I come in for a minute?'

He did not wait for an answer but pushed past her and went inside. Jennifer turned to him. She was usually pleased when Richard called, but this was the wrong time. 'I'm sorry, but you can't stay. I must hurry. I'm meeting my friend Claire for dinner and...' She stopped. It was Richard's eyes—they looked tired and worried.

'What's the matter?' she asked.

Just then Dr Gibson called from his room. 'Did I hear the doorbell, Nurse? Was it another patient?'

'No, it's only my brother Richard,' she called back.

She turned back to Richard. 'Is something wrong?' she asked again.

He shook his head. 'I'm fine,' he said. 'It's just... well, I had some trouble at work.'

'Trouble?'

'It was nothing, really. I said something to my boss and he didn't like it. He got angry with me and... and in the end he told me to go. So I've lost my job.'

'Oh Richard, not again! Why do you do these things?' Jennifer was beginning to feel cross with him. 'And now you have no money, is that it?'

'Take it easy, Jenny. I don't need very much. Only twenty pounds. I'll pay you back next week—really I will.' He put his hand on her arm. 'You can do that for me, can't you? Just twenty pounds. It's for a present.'

'Yes, I know, I know. A present for a very special girl—like the last one. And the one before.' Jennifer knew her young brother well and she was often angry with him, but she could never say no to him. She opened her bag, took out some money and gave it to him. 'But remember, I want it back next week.'

Richard smiled and put his arm around his sister. 'Thanks, Jenny. This is different. Really! She's very, very special. But you're in a hurry so I'll go now.'

'Don't forget,' she called after him. 'Next week. Twenty pounds.'

Maxim's restaurant was busy—young men and women from offices, several older people, a group of students, and a few theatre people. Jennifer looked around for her friend. Claire usually sat near the window but tonight she was not there. Somebody was having a party and all the tables on that side were full. Then Jennifer heard Claire's voice behind her. 'Did you get lost? I've been here for hours.'

'I know I'm late,' Jennifer said, 'and I am sorry. Today has been really busy. The last patient didn't leave until eight-thirty. And then I had a visit from Richard. He wanted to borrow some money. He always wants to borrow money.'

They went to an empty table. A waiter came up to them and took their orders. At that moment there was a cheer from the party beside the window. An older man in a light grey suit was standing up. He spoke for a few minutes and then held up his glass. All the others stood up, and looked at a young girl with large gold ear-rings, who was sitting in the chair next to him. Everyone was laughing, and then they began to sing 'Happy birthday to you'. They were all looking at the girl, but she herself just sat there without a smile on her face. The song came to an end, and there was another loud cheer and more laughing and shouting. Someone called out 'Twenty-one today, twenty-one today... ', and this time everyone in the restaurant sang too.

Suddenly there was a loud crash. Then someone screamed and a voice shouted, 'Bring a towel—quickly.' The man in the grey suit was lying across the table. He was holding his face, which was red with blood. On the table there was broken glass.

Someone said in a loud voice, 'What happened—did he fall?' Several people were speaking at the same time. 'It's his heart, you know ...' 'Joe's been in and out of hospital for years...' '...his head hit those glasses'.

The man was still lying across the table. Jennifer jumped up, and both she and Claire ran over to him.

'We're nurses,' said Jennifer. 'Can we help?'

There was a cut on the side of the man's face. It was deep and he was losing a lot of blood. A waiter ran up with a towel. Jennifer took it and held it to the cut. The man's mouth was open and he was making strange noises.

'He needs a doctor. We'll have to get him to hospital,' Jennifer said. She turned to Claire. 'You came here in your car, didn't you?'

'Yes, come on—we'll take him,' Claire replied.

They helped the man outside and put him in Claire's car. Jennifer jumped in beside him and they drove off. She was still holding the towel to the man's face. The blood was not coming so fast now and he was beginning to feel a little better.

'Where... where are we going?' he asked. 'Are you taking me home?'

'Just stay there and don't speak,' Jennifer told him. 'You fell and hurt yourself. You'll be all right, but you must see a doctor. We'll be at the hospital in a few minutes.'

At the word 'hospital' the man immediately tried to sit up. 'No, no,' he said angrily, 'I don't need to go to hospital. I'm feeling better now. Just take me home. And who are you?'

'I'm a nurse,' Jennifer told him. 'And you need to see a doctor. We're nearly there now. Just sit still—and stop talking.'

But the man was feeling stronger now and he would not be quiet. He pulled at Jennifer's arm and said loudly, 'I don't need a doctor. It's just a small cut on my face. I'm all right now. Take me home!' When Jennifer did not answer him, he said in a quieter voice. 'Come on now—listen to me. I'm feeling fine, really I am. There's no need to take me to hospital. They'll want to keep me there—they always do, because of my bad heart. You see, I have to meet some business people the day after tomorrow—it's very important. So just stop the car and I can get a taxi home.'

By now the car was at the door of the hospital. A nurse came to meet them and while Claire told her about the accident, Jennifer helped the man out of the car. He said something angrily to the nurse, but after a few seconds he went with her into the hospital. Jennifer and Claire drove away.

'What a difficult man!' said Claire crossly. 'No "Thank you for your help" or "You're very kind".'

'Some people never say thank you,' Jennifer said. 'Don't worry about it.'

When they got back to Maxim's, a police car was standing outside, with its blue light on. There was a small group of people around the door. Jennifer pushed through them, Claire behind her. They tried to go inside. A policeman moved forward and put up his arm. 'You'll have to wait here,' he told them.

'But we ordered dinner... and we haven't eaten yet,' said Claire.

But the policeman was not listening to them. He was looking through the glass door. Something was happening inside and people were moving about. Then one of Maxim's waiters opened the door and two policemen came out. They were holding a young girl between them. It was the girl from the birthday party, the girl with the unhappy face and the expensive gold ear-rings. The police pushed her into the back of their car and drove away quickly.

Jennifer and Claire looked at each other. What an evening! They waited two or three minutes, but the restaurant door was closed now and the policeman was standing in front of it again.

Neither of them felt hungry any more. They walked slowly towards the car. Claire was the first to speak. 'Come on, Jenny, let's enjoy ourselves—we're having a night out.' Jennifer did not speak.

Claire went on, 'Do you remember Maxim's little song on TV?' She began to sing:

Come where the music's wonderful,

Come where the food is fine.

Let's all meet at Maxim's,

We'll have a wonderful time.

She stopped. Jennifer was not pleased. 'All this is not really my idea of a wonderful time,' she said. 'I'm tired and I wanted a nice quiet evening, a good meal, and an early night.'

'Come on,' Claire replied. 'Let's go to another restaurant.'

'No, let's leave it till next week. I'll just walk home now.'

They said goodbye. Claire got into her car and called, 'See you next week, then.'

Jennifer walked slowly home. She felt unhappy and worried—worried about her young brother, Richard. She remembered his visit to the surgery earlier that evening. He was always in and out of jobs, and never had any money. A year ago he had a little trouble with the police, but Richard did not worry about it. He never worried about anything! He just laughed, and came to Jennifer to ask for more money. Both their parents were dead, and there were no other brothers or sisters. So Jennifer, fifteen years older than Richard, worried about her brother a lot.

She went past a jewellery shop with its lights on, and stopped to look in the window for a minute. She saw some ear-rings and then remembered the gold ear-rings on the girl at Maxim's. They were large and looked very expensive—and they looked all wrong next to that small unhappy face. Where did she get them? Jennifer smiled to herself. Perhaps the police were asking that question now.

surgery n. a place where a doctor or dentist gives treatment 诊所；牙医诊所；门诊（时间）

patient n. a person receiving or registered to receive medical treatment 病人

tired a. bored with something because it is no longer interesting, or has become annoying 厌倦的；厌烦的

shake v. move forcefully or quickly up and down or to and fro 摇；（猛力）摇动

cross adj. especially angry or annoyed 生气的；恼怒的

lost adj. become unable to find 迷失的；迷路的

cheer n. a shout of happiness, praise, approval, or encouragement 欢呼；喝彩；赞美声

come to an end be completed or finished 完结；终了；结束

crash n. a sudden loud noise made by something falling, breaking etc. 突然发出的巨响；（掉落、断裂等时发出的）碰撞声

scream v. to make a loud high noise with your voice because you are hurt, frightened, excited etc. （因疼痛、惊恐、兴奋等）尖声大叫

towel n. a piece of cloth that you use for drying your skin or for drying things such as dishes 毛巾；抹布

cut n. a wound that is caused when something sharp cuts your skin 切口；伤口；裂口

still adj. without moving 静止的；不动的

forward adv. towards a place or position that is in front of you 向前

move about go or pass from place to place 走来走去

be out of a job not have a job 失业

jewellery n. (also jewelry) small things that you wear for decoration, such as rings or necklaces ［总称］珠宝；首饰

1 ．马克西姆餐厅之夜

珍妮弗看了看候诊室墙上的钟。快8点半了，吉布森大夫房间里的灯依然亮着。我要迟到了，她自言自语道，为什么他不能快点儿呢？虽然星期四的夜间门诊总是很忙碌，但今晚的情况比通常更糟。

她迅速将报纸放进柜橱，随后脱下白大褂，也锁了进去。她正准备关灯，前门门铃响了起来。噢，不，别再有病人了，别在这个时候。她跑过去，打开了门。外面漆黑一片，但她依稀能分辨出是一个男人，两手深深地插在口袋里。他的头动了一下，灯光映照在他的脸上。

“理查德！”她惊呼道，“你跑到这儿来做什么？”

“我能进去待一会儿吗？”

不等回答，他便从她身旁挤了进去。珍妮弗转向他。每当理查德来访，她都会很高兴，但这次他却来得不是时候。“很抱歉你不能待在这儿。我必须立即动身，和好朋友克莱尔共进晚餐，然后……”她停了下来，因为理查德的眼神看上去既疲惫又焦虑。

“出什么事儿了？”她问道。

就在这时，吉布森大夫从房间里喊道：“护士小姐，我是不是听到门铃响了？是又来病人了吗？”

“不是，只是我弟弟理查德。”她回应道。

她又回身问理查德，“出什么事儿了？”

他摇了摇头说：“我很好，只是……唉，我在工作上遇到了点儿麻烦。”

“麻烦？”

“也没什么，真的。我对老板说了些他不爱听的话，他因此对我大发脾气，最后叫我走人。就这样，我丢了工作。”

“噢，理查德，你以后别再这样了。你为什么要这么做？”珍妮弗开始对他感到生气，“你现在又没钱了，对吧？”

“别紧张，珍妮。我不要太多。20镑就够了，下周我就还你，说到做到。”他把一只手搭在她的胳膊上说，“你可以帮我这个忙的，对吧？只要20镑，我要买件礼物。”

“是的，我知道，我知道。要给一个特别的女孩儿买件礼物，就像上次和上上次一样。”珍妮弗很了解她的弟弟，也经常生他的气，但从未拒绝过他。她打开包，拿出钱递给了理查德。“但记住，下周就要还我。”

理查德笑着，搂着他的姐姐说：“谢谢，珍妮。这次真的不同！她是个非同一般的女孩儿。不过，既然你着急出门，我现在就走。”

“别忘了，”她在他身后喊道，“下星期，20英镑。”

马克西姆餐厅里异常热闹，有一些在办公室里工作的青年男女、一些年纪较大的人、一群学生和几个剧团的人。珍妮弗环视了一下四周，想找到她的朋友。克莱尔通常坐在靠近窗户的座位上，但是今晚她并不在那儿。有人正举办宴会，那一侧的餐桌已是座无虚席。这时珍妮弗听到背后传来克莱尔的声音，“迷路了吗？我已经到这儿好半天了。”

“我知道我来晚了，”珍妮弗说，“我很抱歉。今天确实很忙。最后一个病人直到8点半才离开，之后理查德又跑来找我，他是来借钱的。他总想向我借钱。”

她们走到一张空桌子旁，一名服务员走了过来，为她们点菜。正在这时，窗户旁聚会的人群中响起一片欢呼声，一位身穿浅灰色西装的年长男士站了起来。几分钟的简短致词后，他举起了酒杯。其他人也都站起身，向一位佩戴着大大的金耳环的年轻女孩儿看过去，她就坐在这位男士身边的椅子上。所有人都笑着唱起了“祝你生日快乐”。他们都看着她，而她却独自坐在那儿，脸上没有一丝笑容。唱完生日歌，大家又兴高采烈地欢呼起来。有人大声喊道：“今天21啦，今天21……”这一次餐厅里的每个人都跟着唱了起来。

忽然，轰隆一声巨响，有人尖叫起来，一个声音大喊道：“拿毛巾来，快！”身穿灰色西服的男士倒在了桌子上，他用手捂住已经被血染红了的脸。桌子上到处都是打碎的玻璃杯。

有人大声喊道：“出什么事儿了？他摔倒了吗？”与此同时，另一些人在一旁议论纷纷，“要知道，他的心脏……”“乔这些年已经变成医院的常客了……”“……他的头撞在了那些杯子上。”

那位男士仍然躺在桌子上。珍妮弗匆忙站起身，和克莱尔一起朝他跑了过去。

“我们是护士，”珍妮弗说，“能帮上忙吗？”

那位男士的脸有侧被划伤了，伤口很深，他失血很多。一位服务员手拿毛巾跑过来，珍妮弗接过毛巾，按住伤口。那位男士张着嘴，发出了奇怪的声音。

“他需要看大夫，我们必须把他送到医院去，”珍妮弗说。她转向克莱尔：“你开车来的，对吗？”

“没错。来吧，我们送他去医院。”克莱尔回答道。

她们把这位男士扶到了屋外克莱尔的汽车上，珍妮弗跳上车，坐在他的旁边，然后就出发了。珍妮弗仍旧用毛巾捂着他的脸，这时血已经流得不那么猛了，他开始觉得稍好一些。

“这是哪里……我们这是去哪里？”他问道，“你们是要送我回家吗？”

“待在那儿了，别说话，”珍妮弗对他说，“你摔倒后伤到了自己。你很快就会没事的，不过你必须去看医生。再过一会儿我们就到医院了。”

一听到“医院”这个词，这位男士立刻就要起身。“不，不，”他生气地说，“我不需要去医院。我现在感觉好多了。请把我送回家。另外，你是谁？”

“我是护士，”珍妮弗告诉他，“你必须去看医生。我们马上就到了。静静地坐着，别说话。”

然而此时这位男士感觉恢复了一些，便不肯安静下来。他拽着珍妮弗的胳膊大喊道：“我不需要什么医生。我脸上不过是划了个小口子，现在已经没事了。送我回家！”见珍妮弗对他置之不理，他便轻声说：“拜托，听我说。我感觉很好，真的。根本没必要送我去医院。医生们会把我留下来的。因为我心脏不好，他们总想让我住院治疗。你要知道，后天我还要去见一些客户，而且事关重大。请把车停下来，我可以打车回家。”

此时车已经开到了医院门口。一名护士走出来接待他们，克莱尔将这场事故的情况告诉了她，珍妮弗则帮忙把他扶出了汽车。他怒气冲冲地对护士说了些什么，但几秒钟之后便跟她走进了医院。随后珍妮弗和克莱尔便驱车离开了。

“真是个麻烦的人！”克莱尔没好气地说，“连句‘谢谢你的帮助’或‘你真是个好人’这样的话都没有。”

“有些人从来不会说谢谢，”珍妮弗说道，“别为这事心烦了。”

当她们返回到马克西姆餐厅时，一辆亮着蓝灯的警车正停在外面。一小群人围在大门旁。珍妮弗从人群中挤了过去，克莱尔紧跟其后。她们想进到餐厅里面。一位警察走上前来，抬起手拦住了她们。“你们必须在此等候。”他告诉她们说。

“但是我们已经点好了晚餐……，而且还什么都没吃呢，”克莱尔说道。

然而这名警察根本没留意她们在说些什么。他正透过玻璃门向屋里张望。只见屋里的人们来回走动着，似乎发生了什么事情。接着马克西姆餐厅的一位服务员推开了门，两名警察押着一个年轻的女孩儿走了出来。她正是生日宴会上那位戴着昂贵金耳环、郁郁寡欢的女孩儿。警察把她推进警车的后排座位上，迅速开走了。

珍妮弗和克莱尔对视了一下。多么不寻常的一个晚上啊！她俩又等了两三分钟，但此时餐厅的门已被关上了，那位警察再一次站到了餐厅门前。

此时两个人谁也不觉得饿了。她们慢悠悠地朝汽车走去。克莱尔先开了口：“别不高兴了，珍妮。咱们来尽情地享受吧，今晚是出来散心的。”珍妮弗一声不吭。

克莱尔继续说道：“你还记得电视上播放的马克西姆餐厅那首小曲吗？”她开始唱道：

快来这音乐的圣地，

快来这美食的天堂，

齐聚马克西姆，

共享欢乐时光。

她停了下来。珍妮弗看起来不太开心。“这一切并不是我所想象的欢乐时光，”她说道，“我累了，本想安安静静好好过一晚，享受一下美味佳肴，然后早点休息的。”

“好了，”克莱尔回答说，“咱们换一家餐馆吧。”

“算了，还是改在下个星期吧。我现在只想回家。”

于是她们互相道了别。“那么，下周再见吧。”克莱尔上车后说道。

珍妮弗步履缓慢地往家走。她闷闷不乐，并为她的弟弟理查德感到忧心忡忡。她又想起了晚上早些时候理查德跑到她诊所找她时的情景。他总是不断找到新工作又不断地失业，且从来都是身无分文。一年前他还和警方扯上了麻烦，但理查德对此却毫不在乎。他从不把任何事情放在心上！他只是一笑而过，然后去向珍妮弗要更多的钱。他俩的父母双双过世，再无其他兄弟姐妹。因此比理查德大15岁的珍妮弗总是对她的弟弟放心不下。

她路过了一家珠宝店，店内仍开着灯，于是她停下脚步，向橱窗里看了一会儿。她看见了一些耳环，不禁想起了马克西姆餐厅里那个女孩儿所佩戴的金耳环。那对耳环很大，似乎价值不菲，看起来与那张娇小而愁眉不展的脸庞格格不入。她从哪儿得到的这对耳环？珍妮弗微微一笑。或许现在警察正在问这个问题呢。

2A visit from the police

A visit from the police

Jennifer did not sleep well that night. She woke up feeling tired and unhappy. When she arrived at Dr Gibson's surgery, she looked into the waiting-room. It was nearly full. Another busy morning, she said to herself. Just then she heard the doctor's car outside. He hurried in and went into his room.

Three hours later he finished with his last patient. Jennifer brought a cup of coffee and put it on Dr Gibson's desk. He said thanks and she turned to go.

'Er—just a minute,' he called after her, 'I want a word with you.' He sounded a little cross. 'There was a phone call for you this morning—about an hour ago. You were busy at the time so I answered it.'

'Oh, who was it?'

'Let me see—I wrote it down somewhere.' He began to move the papers on his desk. 'She said that she was a friend of your brother's.'

'My brother? But why did she want me?'

'Ah, here it is.' He gave Jennifer a piece of paper. On it was a name—Wendy. 'She didn't leave a number. She'll call you again at home.'

Jennifer looked at the name. Wendy?... Wendy who? she asked herself.

'Thank you, Dr Gibson,' she said.

'And tell her, please, no phone calls during surgery hours.'

'I'm sorry. It won't happen again.' Jennifer wanted to explain that she did not know this Wendy but decided not to. A few minutes later Dr Gibson shouted goodbye to her and Jennifer was alone. She knew a few of Richard's friends but nobody called Wendy. But Richard changed his girl friends as often as his shirts! Jennifer did not try to remember all their names.

*　　*　　*

At the end of the day Jennifer arrived at her flat and was going up the stairs when she heard voices above. Two men were standing outside her door. One of them came up to her. 'Miss Walton?' he asked. 'My name's Detective Barrett. I'd like to ask you a few questions, please. Can we come in?'

She turned the key in the lock and pushed open the door, and all three of them went inside and sat down.

'It's about Mr Richard Walton. He's your brother, I think,' Barrett began. He spoke softly but he had a hard voice, cold and unfriendly, and his light blue eyes never left Jennifer's face. 'When did you last see him?'

Jennifer told him.

'And before that?'

'I'm not sure—about three or four weeks ago.'

Those light blue eyes were still on her. She was beginning to feel uncomfortable.

'You didn't see him last weekend, then?'

'No.'

'Try to remember—did he come here last Saturday? In the evening?'

'No.'

'You're sure?'

'Yes, of course I'm sure.'

Barrett's voice became a little louder. 'You didn't meet him in some other place? At the airport perhaps?'

'No, I didn't. I haven't seen him for nearly a month, I tell you. Until last night, I mean.'

'Last night...' Barrett said after her. 'Tell us more about last night. You took a man to hospital...from Maxim's restaurant.'

'Yes.'

'A friend of yours?'

'I never saw him in my life before. He fell and hurt himself. They said that he had a bad heart so I went to the hospital with him. That's all.'

'You never saw him before? You surprise me, Miss Walton.' Barrett was watching her carefully. 'You didn't know that he was Mr Joe Kelly, your brother's boss?'

'No, I didn't.'

'Really? You didn't know him? Very strange, don't you think?'

All these questions—she was feeling angry now. She stood up and went across to Barrett. 'Look, Detective Barrett, I'm getting tired of this. What's it all about? You want me to answer your questions and you don't tell me why. What's the matter—I want to know. Is Richard in trouble?'

Barrett held up his hands. 'All right, take it easy.' He gave a little smile but his eyes were cold and he was still looking hard at Jennifer. The other detective said something quietly to Barrett. Then Barrett went on, 'Your brother—what do you know about his girl friend?'

'His girl friend?'

'Yes, Wendy. He works with her at Joe Kelly's.'

Wendy! The mystery telephone call at the surgery that morning! Jennifer tried to hide her surprise. She looked first at Barrett, then at the other man. Then she said coldly, 'Richard doesn't talk to me about his girl friends.'

'He's told you about Wendy, I'm sure. They're very friendly, the two of them. They went to Germany together.' He turned to the other man. 'Last weekend, wasn't it?'

The second detective moved a little nearer and spoke quietly to Barrett. 'She doesn't know anything about this. You'll have to explain it to her.'

Barrett turned to Jennifer again. 'We're looking for some stolen jewellery, from Germany. And we believe that your brother knows something about it. You won't like this, Miss Walton, but your brother works for a criminal, a thief, and one of these days he's going to find himself in trouble.'

'But my brother lost his job yesterday. He told me last night. So he doesn't work for this man any more.'

Barrett smiled. 'Perhaps he doesn't...or perhaps he wants people to think that he doesn't work for Kelly.' He went on. 'If you don't want to see your brother in prison, tell him to keep away from Kelly. And from beautiful young girls like Wendy.'

Jennifer looked at him and said nothing.

Barrett stood up. He looked at the other man and they both moved to the door. Jennifer followed and opened it for them.

'Good night, Miss Walton. Thanks for your help.'

They walked to the top of the stairs. Jennifer waited for a few seconds, then went inside and closed the door.

Oh Richard, she thought. What is happening? What are you doing? Why can't you stay out of trouble?

She telephoned Richard's flat, but there was no answer. So she went to bed, and worried half the night about her young brother.

*　　*　　*

The next day, Saturday, she worked only in the morning. When Dr Gibson's surgery finished, she went home to have lunch. Then she planned to go round to Richard's flat and talk to him. But when she got into her flat, the telephone was ringing. She ran across the room and answered it.

'Hello, is that Jennifer Walton?' someone asked. It was a girl's voice.

'Yes, Jennifer here. Who's speaking?'

The caller was silent for a second or two, then said, 'You don't know me, but I'm a friend of your brother's. Are you free just now? I need to see you. It's important.' She went on quickly. 'I'm just round the corner from your flat. Can I come up? I'll be there in three minutes.' And she put the phone down.

Jennifer was waiting at the door when her visitor arrived. She looked at her in surprise. She knew that face. It was the young girl from Maxim's, but without the gold ear-rings today.

The girl was also surprised. 'I saw you at Maxim's on Thursday night,' she said. 'You took Joe Kelly to hospital. Are you Jennifer, Richard's sister?'

'Yes,' said Jennifer. She looked at her visitor, and began to put two and two together. 'And you must be Wendy.'

'Yes,' the girl said.

Jennifer stood back, and the girl went inside. They sat down and Jennifer looked at the girl coldly. So this was Richard's girl friend... who worked for the criminal, Joe Kelly. She had a beautiful little face and looked very unhappy, but Jennifer did not want to like her.

'What do you want to see me about?' she asked.

'It's difficult to explain,' the girl began. She looked unhappily at Jennifer's unfriendly face. 'You see, Richard has told me about you. He says that you're very kind... you always help him. He gave me your phone numbers and said...' She stopped, and Jennifer waited. 'He said that I could ask you for help.'

Jennifer smiled to herself. Always the kind big sister, she thought. She looked at the girl's small, worried face.

'Well, go on, then,' she said more kindly. 'Tell me all about it. I hope that Richard's not in trouble.'

'You see, I work for Joe Kelly,' Wendy began. She talked for a long time, and Jennifer listened carefully.

This was Wendy's story.

stair n. (usu. in pl.) a set of steps built for going from one level of a building to another （楼层之间的）楼梯

detective n. a police officer whose job is to discover information that will result in criminals being caught 侦探；警探

softly adv. in a soft, gentle, or quiet manner （声音）轻地；轻柔地

uncomfortable adj. uneasy; causing or feeling disquiet 不安的；不自在的

boss n. a person in charge; an employer, manager, or over seer 老板；上司

in trouble a situation in which someone in authority is angry with you or is likely to punish you 有了麻烦；受到牵连

mystery n. something that is impossible to understand or explain or about which little is known 神秘（性）

hide v. to not show your feelings to people 隐藏；掩盖（自己的感情）

criminal n. a person who has committed a crime or crimes 罪犯

prison n. a large building where people are kept as a punishment for a crime, or while waiting to go to court for their trial 监狱；看守所

keep away prevent from being near （使）不靠近，（使）远离

caller n. a person who pays a visit or makes a telephone call 来访者；打电话者

silent adj. not saying anything 不作声的

visitor n. a person who visits a person or place 访问者；来客

put two and two together to guess the meaning of something you have heard or seen 根据现有的事实推断；综合起来判断

2 ．警察来访

珍妮弗整晚都没睡好，醒来时依然觉得疲惫，心情很糟。到达吉布森大夫的诊所后，她朝候诊室里瞧了瞧，里面几乎坐满了人。她暗想，又是一个繁忙的早晨。这时她听到了屋外吉布森大夫的汽车声。他匆匆忙忙地走进了自己的房间。

三个小时之后，他看完了最后一个病人。珍妮弗端来了一杯咖啡，放在了吉布森大夫的桌上。他说了声谢谢，珍妮弗随即转身要走。

他叫住她说：“嗯——稍等，我有几句话想跟你说。”听他的语气似乎有些生气。“今天早上，大概一个小时前，有个电话找你。当时你忙得脱不开身，所以我接了。”

“哦，是谁打来的？”

“让我看看，我把它写在什么地方了。”他翻弄着桌上的文件。“她说她是你弟弟的一个朋友。”

“我弟弟？但她打电话找我干什么？”

“噢，在这儿呢。”他递给珍妮弗一张纸。上面写着一个人的名字——温迪。“她没有留下电话号码。她会再给你家里打电话的。”

珍妮弗看着上面的名字。温迪？……哪个温迪？她问自己道。

“谢谢你，吉布森大夫。”她说。

“麻烦你告诉她，就诊时间不要打电话来。”

“我很抱歉。不会再有下次了。”珍妮弗本想向他解释她根本不认识这个叫温迪的人，但她又打消了这个念头。几分钟后吉布森大夫大声说了句“再见”便离开了，屋里只剩下了珍妮弗一人。理查德的朋友她倒认识一些，可却没有一个叫温迪。但是理查德换女朋友就像换衬衫一样频繁！珍妮弗无法把她们的名字全都记下来。

*　　*　　*

一天结束后，珍妮弗回到了寓所。上楼的时候，她听到楼上有说话声。两名男子正站在她家门口，其中一位向她走来。“您是沃尔顿小姐吗？”他问道，“我是警探巴雷特。请允许我问你几个问题。我们可以进屋吗？”

她用钥匙开了锁，然后将门推开，三个人进屋坐了下来。

“是关于理查德·沃尔顿先生的事情。我想他是你弟弟。”巴雷特开始说道。他说话声音很轻，但却强硬、冷淡，让人感到不友好，他那双淡蓝色的眼睛一直目不转睛地盯着珍妮弗的脸。“你最后一次见到他是什么时候？”

珍妮弗告诉了他。

“那么之前一次呢？”

“我不是很确定，大概是三四个星期之前吧。”

这双淡蓝色的眼睛依然注视着她。这让她开始感到很不自在。

“这么说来上个周末你没有见到他喽？”

“没有。”

“试着好好想想。上周六他来过这儿没有？晚上的时候？

“没有。”

“你肯定吗？”

“是的，我当然可以肯定。”

巴雷特稍稍提高了嗓门。“你没在其他地方见过他吗？比如说在机场？”

“是的，我没见过他。告诉你我差不多已经一个月没见过他了。我的意思是直到昨天晚上。”

“昨晚……”巴雷特接过她的话。“请告诉我们更多关于昨晚的情况。你从马克西姆餐厅……送一位男士去了医院？”

“是的。”

“他是你的朋友？”

“我以前从没见过他。他摔倒后伤着了自己。他的同伴们说他心脏不好，所以我就送他去了医院。就这样。”

“难道你以前从没有见过他吗？沃尔顿小姐，你真让我感到吃惊。”巴雷特仔细观察着她的表情。“难道你不知道他就是乔·凯利先生，你弟弟的老板吗？”

“是的，我不知道。”

“真的吗？你不认识他？你不觉得这太奇怪了吗？”

这一连串的问题开始让她感到恼怒。她站起身，走向巴雷特，“听着，巴雷特警探，我简直烦透了。这一切是怎么了？你想让我回答你的问题，却不告诉我是为了什么。我想知道出了什么事。是理查德遇到了什么麻烦吗？”

巴雷特抬起了手。“没什么，别紧张。”他挤出一丝微笑，但那双冷漠的眼睛仍死死盯住珍妮弗。另一位警探悄悄地对巴雷特说了些什么，然后巴雷特继续说道，“你弟弟——你认识他的女朋友吗？”

“他的女朋友？”

“是的，温迪。理查德和她同在乔·凯利的公司做事。”

温迪！早上在诊所接到的神秘电话！珍妮弗试图掩饰内心的惊奇。她先看了看巴雷特，又看了看另一位警探。然后冷冷地说：“理查德没跟我提起过他的女朋友。”

“我敢肯定他跟你提起过温迪。他们彼此相处得非常融洽，还一起去了德国。”他扭头对另一个警探说，“是上周末，对吧？”

另一个警探稍稍凑近了一些，轻声对巴雷特说：“她对此毫不知情。你得向她解释解释。”

巴雷特又回过头对珍妮弗说：“我们正在寻找一批从德国偷来的珠宝。我们相信你弟弟了解一些情况。沃尔顿小姐，这话你恐怕不爱听，但你弟弟是在为一个罪犯、一个小偷效劳，很快他就会发现自己惹上麻烦了。”

“但我弟弟昨天丢了工作。他昨晚告诉我的，所以他以后不会再为这个人干活了。”

巴雷特笑了。“他有可能不再为凯利工作了，也有可能只是想让别人这么认为。”他接着说道，“如果你不想看到你弟弟坐牢的话，就让他离凯利远点儿，还有离像温迪这样年轻漂亮的女孩远点儿。”

珍妮弗看着他，一言不发。

巴雷特站起身，瞅了另一位警探一眼，便和他一起朝大门走去。珍妮弗跟在他们身后，为他们打开了门。

“晚安，沃尔顿小姐。感谢你的帮助。”

他们走到了楼梯口。等了几秒钟之后，珍妮弗走进屋，关上了门。

噢，理查德，她心里想道。出什么事儿了？你在做什么呢？为什么你就不能不惹是生非呢？

她给理查德的住所打了电话，但无人接听。于是她上床躺了下来，并且整整半宿都在为她这个弟弟担忧。

*　　*　　*

翌日是星期六，她只有一个上午的班。在吉布森大夫的诊所里忙完后，她就回家吃午饭，然后打算绕道去理查德的公寓跟他谈谈。然而她刚进家门电话铃就响了，她穿过屋子，跑过去接起了电话。

“你好，是珍妮弗·沃尔顿小姐吗？”对方问道。这是个女孩儿的声音。

“是的，我是珍妮弗。您是哪位？”

打电话的人沉默了片刻，然后说道：“你不认识我。我是你弟弟的一个朋友。你现在有时间吗？我想跟你见一面，这件事非常重要。”她又立即接着说，“我就在你公寓附近的拐角处。我能上去吗？3分钟就到。”她随即放下了电话。

当这位来访者到达时，珍妮弗正等在门口。眼前的女孩让珍妮弗大吃一惊，她认得这张面孔。她正是马克西姆餐厅里的那位年轻女孩，不过今天她没有戴那对金耳环。

那个女孩也同样感到很吃惊，“星期四的晚上我在马克西姆餐厅里见过你。”她说道，“你带乔·凯利去了医院。你真的是理查德的姐姐珍妮弗吗？”

“是的。”珍妮弗回答道。她上下打量了一下来访者，心里不由得开始推测。“那你一定是温迪了。”

“没错。”女孩儿说。

珍妮弗退后一步，让女孩儿进了屋。两人坐了下来，珍妮弗冷冷地看着这个女孩儿。这么看来她就是理查德的女朋友了……她为乔·凯利这个罪犯做事。她有一张娇小美丽的脸，满面愁容。不过珍妮弗并不希望自己喜欢上这个女孩儿。

“你想见我是为了什么事？”她问道。

“这事解释起来有些困难，”女孩儿开口说道。她郁郁地看着珍妮弗，而珍妮弗也显出了一脸的不友善。“你知道，理查德跟我谈起过你。他说你为人善良，……还总是帮着他。他把你的电话号码给了我，并且说……”她停了一下，珍妮弗等着她继续把话说完。“他说我可以找你帮忙。”

珍妮弗暗自微微一笑，看着女孩儿那张娇小但却显得心事重重的脸，心想：“我一向都是慈爱的大姐姐。”

“那么，请接着讲吧，”她用更为温和的语气说道。“告诉我发生的一切。我希望理查德没有遇上什么麻烦。”

“要知道，我为乔·凯利做事，”温迪开始说道。她滔滔不绝地讲了好长时间，珍妮弗聚精会神地听着。

这便是温迪的故事。

3Wendy's story

Wendy's story

Kelly is not a nice man, and I've never liked him. I've worked for him for a year now. My father got the job for me—he told me to work hard and not to ask questions. Kelly often gets angry, and when he's angry, he shouts at everyone and his face goes very red. I'm afraid of him, but I don't want to lose my job. I need the money and it's not easy to find another job.

Richard started work at Kelly's about a month ago. We're good friends, but we don't talk much about our jobs. Nobody at Kelly's talks about the work. We don't really know what his business is. He has two garages in the town and he buys and sells old cars. But he also buys and sells a lot of other things, too—furniture, old pictures, jewellery. I think that some of these things are stolen, but I don't ask questions.

Ten days ago Kelly called me into his office. I stood there and waited. He began to say something to me, but he stopped and looked down at his papers. Then he took out his diary and opened it.

'Wendy, what are you doing next weekend?'

'I'm not sure, Mr Kelly.'

'How would you like to go on a little business trip? I'll pay you for it, of course.'

This surprised me, and I did not reply immediately. Then I said, 'A business trip, Mr Kelly?'

'Yes, to Germany... just for the day. It isn't a difficult job but it's important. What do you say?'

I did not know much about Mr Kelly's business, but I did know that there was something strange about these journeys to other countries. They happened every two or three months, and after them there were secret meetings in the office, often late in the evening. I decided that I did not want to go.

'But... but I've never been to Germany. Don't you think... well, perhaps you can ask one of the others.'

'I'm asking you, Wendy. I said that it was important and I want you to do it.' I began to say something but he was still speaking. 'I have friends in Frankfurt and they want to send me some things. They'll give you three small boxes, like egg boxes, and you'll bring them back here. There's nothing difficult about that, is there?'

I didn't say anything.

'Are you listening to me, Wendy?' he asked. 'I need you to do this job for me.' His voice was getting louder now.

I looked him in the face. 'I'm... I'm sorry, Mr Kelly. I've just remembered. I'm busy next weekend. I can't do it.'

He jumped up and his chair fell back. 'Now, just you listen to me, young woman. You work for me, remember that. I'm the person who pays you.' He caught my arm and shook me. 'This time I'm telling you, not asking you. You'll go to Frankfurt or there'll be trouble. You will leave on the first plane on Saturday morning and come back the same evening. With the three boxes. And don't say a word to anyone, do you understand?'

Then he walked out.

I didn't sleep much that night. Or the next. I wanted to tell Richard but he was out of town on another of Kelly's jobs. What could I do? I was afraid, and Kelly knew that I was afraid. He did not speak about it again but on Friday he called me into his office and gave me my plane ticket and some money. There was no escape.

Saturday morning came, and I went to the airport. While I was waiting there, I heard my name. I knew that voice immediately. I turned round. 'Richard!' I cried. 'Oh Richard, I'm so pleased to see you. But what are you doing here?' 'I'm coming with you. To Frankfurt. Kelly told me to. Look, here's my ticket.'

'You mean... Wait a minute. What did Kelly tell you?'

Richard was smiling. 'He told me to come with you, that's all. To stay with you... you know, on the plane... and in Frankfurt.'

I began to understand. 'He told you to watch me, you mean.'

When we were on the plane, Richard asked me about my work at Kelly's. He knew very little about Kelly's business and he knew very little about our trip to Frankfurt. I told him about the 'egg' boxes and why I was afraid. 'The boxes are small, Kelly said, so I think it's jewellery,' I told Richard. 'And I think...I think it's stolen jewellery.'

Then Richard got very angry, and said, 'Kelly can't send you on a job like this. Why doesn't he go himself?'

'But that's it, Richard. It's easier for a girl—Kelly knows that. He's clever, you know. But he thinks I'm afraid. So he's sent you to watch me.'

For a time Richard just sat there, and thought. After a while he turned to me. 'You're not going to do it—you're not going to carry stolen jewellery for that man. Leave it to me. I'll think of something, of some plan.' Then he was silent again.

When we arrived in Frankfurt, we went to a hotel for breakfast. Then Richard went off to buy a newspaper, and after that we sat around for about half an hour.

We had to meet Kelly's friends outside the hotel. When we walked out of the door, two men were waiting for us in a white Mercedes. We drove through the busy streets of the city and then into the country. Some time later we stopped at an old house with trees all around it. We all went inside and the men took us into a dark room at the back and left us there. It was cold and Richard gave me his coat. He was smiling quietly to himself.

We waited there in silence. In another room people were talking. We could hear their voices. Then the driver of the Mercedes came and took us upstairs. A short man in a dark green shirt was sitting at a desk. In front of him on the desk were three boxes. He was playing with a pen and watching us carefully. Richard spoke to him in German. I did not understand, but I heard Kelly's name and the man in the green shirt began to say something.

All at once there were noises outside, the sound of cars and voices and people running. The man jumped up from his desk and pulled a gun out of his pocket. He tried to get to the window but at that minute the door opened and three or four policemen ran in and jumped on him. There was a fight, but the police got his gun from him and held him on the floor. An older man arrived, a police inspector with grey hair, and began to give orders to the policemen. He called across the room to Richard and me in very good English, 'Are you all right? They didn't hurt you, did they?'

He gave some more orders and then he came across to Richard and held out his hand. 'Well done, young man. I must thank you for your help.' He turned to me. 'And thank you too. You've done very well, both of you. It's been a good day's work for all of us.'

I looked at Richard and he gave me a little smile. 'What does he mean?' I asked, but Richard did not answer.

The inspector then explained to me. 'Your friend phoned us this morning from your hotel. After that it was easy. We just waited near the hotel for the white Mercedes and then followed it here.'

The inspector took us back into Frankfurt in his car and when we arrived there, we went at once to his office. He ordered coffee for us and while we were waiting for it, he said, 'You've helped us a lot already but we need your help with one more thing. There's still Mr Kelly...and his friends. We have a plan for them.' Oh yes, he knew all about Joe Kelly.

He brought out the three boxes and put them on the table in front of us. Then he said, 'We would like you to take these back to England with you.'

Richard and I looked at him in surprise.

The inspector waited for a minute and then went on, 'You don't need to be afraid. Perhaps you're thinking about the British police, is that it? Everything will be all right. I will speak to Chief Superintendent Edwards in London, and there'll be no trouble for you. Now listen carefully.' He went on. 'Just give the jewellery to Kelly. He won't know about the "accident" to his German friends, and you must not tell anybody about it, or about our conversation today. That's very important. The British police will watch Kelly and wait. Do you understand?'

This plan sounded dangerous to me but Richard said, 'Yes, of course we'll do it, won't we, Wendy?' Richard is not afraid of Kelly, you see.

So we brought the boxes back with us on the Saturday evening plane from Frankfurt. We did not get back until nearly midnight but we took the boxes at once to Kelly's house. He told us to wait and then went into another room. When he came back, he was very happy. He put his hand in his pocket and took out some gold ear-rings. 'These are for you, Wendy—for your birthday next Thursday.'

'No, Mr Kelly, no, you mustn't. I can't take them, really I can't.'

'Of course you can,' Kelly laughed. 'You've worked hard for them. And we must have a party for you. Let's get some people together on Thursday night. Where would you like to go? To the Ritz? Or perhaps a disco? No, I know...', and he began to sing:

Let's all meet at Maxim's,

We'll have a wonderful time.

I told him three times that I didn't want a party but he didn't want to listen. He was too pleased with himself. 'Oh, yes, Wendy. We must have a party. And you must wear the ear-rings. Then I'll know you're my good little girl.' His mouth was smiling but his eyes were cold.

Richard said quietly in my ear, 'Just agree with him, Wendy. And take his ear-rings—you can give them back later. We don't want anything to go wrong now.'

The next few days passed very slowly. On Monday and Tuesday everything was quiet in the office. Kelly did not speak to me again about the visit to Frankfurt. He stayed in his office most of the time and was always on the telephone. No police came to the office, and nothing happened. I began to feel afraid.

Early on Wednesday morning Richard called in to see me. 'Is he in yet?' he asked. He looked at Kelly's door.

'Not yet. Why?'

'I want the keys to his office. just for a minute.'

'But Richard...'

'Come on, Wendy, he'll never know.'

'You can't go in there, Richard. He'll be here in a minute—it's too dangerous.'

'Please, Wendy. It won't take long. I'll be out again immediately.'

'But why... what do you want?'

'Don't ask questions. Just give me the keys—quickly.'

Of course in the end I gave him the keys. He opened  Kelly's door and went inside. Some minutes passed and then he gave a shout. 'I think I've got something!'

I went in and saw that Richard was standing in front of Kelly's desk with a letter in his hand. He held it up for me. 'This', he said, 'is going to help us.'

'What do you mean?' I did not understand.

'Listen.' He read from the letter... the eggs arrived last weekend and they are now in my house, Be there on 18th April, 11 a.m.

'The 18th,' said. 'That's next Saturday.'

Just then I heard a car outside. 'That's him,' I cried. 'Quick, put that letter back. You must get out of here at once.'

I ran through to my office with Richard behind me. 'Out there—quick.' I pushed him into the kitchen and at the same time the door opened and Kelly walked in.

'Good morning, Wendy.' He did not stop but went into his office and closed the door behind him.

Richard then quickly left the office and I did not see him again that day. He phoned me the next afternoon, which was Thursday. I knew at once that he was unhappy about something.

'What's happened, Richard?' I asked.

'I'm not working for Kelly any more,' he told me. 'This morning Kelly told me to do another of his little jobs for him, and I said no. So he started shouting at me, and then he told me to go. So that's it—I'm looking for another job.' He gave a little laugh. 'And worse than that, he hasn't paid me, and now I can't buy you a birthday present.'

'Oh Richard, that's not important,' I said. 'But are you coming to Kelly's party for me at Maxim's tonight? I won't go without you. You must come.'

'I can't, Wendy. I'd like to be there, you know that. But we mustn't meet until after Saturday.'

'Why not? What's happening on Saturday? And what's happening about the...the egg boxes? What are the police doing? Kelly says I must wear my new gold ear-rings at the party, but I don't want to. They came from Frankfurt in one of those egg boxes, and they're stolen! Oh Richard, I'm afraid! What am I going to do?'

'Everything's going to be all right, Wendy. Really. I've got a plan. Just go to the party, and don't worry. I'll see you soon.'

Richard put the phone down, and I have not seen or heard from him since then.

garage n. a place that repairs or sells cars 汽车修理厂

furniture n. the movable equipment of a house, room, etc., e.g. tables, chairs, and beds ［总称］家具

journey n. an act of going from one place to another, esp. at a long distance （多指陆路长途的）旅行；行程

secret adj. kept or meant to be kept private, unknown, or hidden from all or all but a few 保密的

escape n. the act of getting away from a place 逃脱

watch v. to be careful with or pay attention to 注意；当心

sit around to spend a lot of time sitting and doing nothing very useful 闲坐；无所事事

in silence without speech or other sound 安静地；沉默地；无声地

all at once without warning; suddenly 突然；忽然

fight n. an act of fighting in which two people or groups hit, push etc. each other 搏斗

police inspector a police officer below a superintendent and above a sergeant in rank （警察）巡官；警察分局局长

chief superintendent a senior police officer above the rank of inspector 总警司

call in pay a brief visit 到某人的家（或办公处等）访问

kitchen n. the room or area where food is prepared and cooked 厨房

hear from to receive news from someone 收到……的信（或电报等）

3 ．温迪的故事

凯利并不是个正派的人，我压根儿就不喜欢他。我为他做事已经有一年了。这份工作是我父亲帮我找的——他嘱咐我要勤勤恳恳地工作，不要问东问西。凯利经常发脾气，每当这时，他就会面红耳赤，对所有人大吼大叫。我很怕他，但又不想失去这份工作。我需要钱，而要找到其他工作又不那么容易。

理查德大约是在一个月前开始为凯利做事的。我们是很好的朋友，但却很少谈论工作上的事。为凯利做事的人都不会去谈论工作。我们并不知道他究竟做的是什么样的生意。他在城里拥有两家汽车修理厂，从事旧车买卖。不过他也买卖其他各色商品，如家具、古画、珠宝等。我想其中一些东西应该是偷来的，但我从不过问。

十天前，凯利把我叫进他的办公室。我站在屋里，等着他发话。他开始跟我说了些事，却又止住了，他低头看了看文件，然后拿出他的日记本打开来。

“温迪，下个周末你打算干些什么？”

“我还不太清楚呢，凯利先生。”

“出个小差你觉得如何？当然，我会给你酬劳的。”

他的话让我很是意外，我没有立即回答，问道：“凯利先生，您要我出趟差？”

“是的，去德国……当天去当天回。这份差事并不难，但极为重要。你觉得如何？”

对于凯利先生所从事的买卖我知之甚少，但我却觉得这些去其他国家的出差有些蹊跷。类似的情况每两三个月就会发生一次，而且之后总会在办公室秘密召开一次会议，时间通常都在深夜。我决定不去德国出差。

“可是……可是我从来都没去过德国。所以，您不觉得……哦，您或许可以让其他人去。”

“温迪，我是要你去。我说过这个任务很重要，我希望由你来完成。”我本想说些什么，但他却一直不停地说了下去：“我在法兰克福的朋友想送我些东西，他们会给你三个小盒，像鸡蛋盒一样，你把它们带回来就行了。这没什么难的，对吗？”

我什么也没说。

“温迪，你在听我说话吗？”他问，“我需要你替我完成这件事。”他的声音开始大起来。

我看着他的脸。“我……我很抱歉，凯利先生。我刚想起来，下个周末我很忙，恐怕我没法出差。”

他猛地跳起来，椅子倒在了后面。“现在，请你给我听着，年轻人。你要记住，你是在给我工作。是我给你支付薪水。”他一把抓住我的胳膊，把我晃来晃去。“这次我是在命令你，不是在请求你。你必须去法兰克福，否则就会有麻烦。你坐星期六早上的头班飞机离开，当天晚上带着那三盒东西回来。不要跟任何人说，明白吗？”

说完他便走了出去。

那天晚上，也许是之后的那个晚上，我辗转难眠。我想告诉理查德，但他却出城处理凯利交代的另一件事情去了。我该怎么办呢？我惴惴不安，凯利也看出来了。他没再对此说些什么，直到星期五那天他把我叫进了办公室，把机票和一些钱给了我。这回真的逃不掉了。

到了星期六早上，我去了机场。当我正在候机时，听见有人叫我的名字。我立刻听出了那个声音。我转过身，“理查德！”我喊道。“噢，理查德，见到你太高兴了。可你在这儿做什么？”

“我是来陪你的，去法兰克福。凯利让我来的。看，这是我的机票。”

“你是说……等等。凯利都跟你说了些什么？”

理查德笑了。“他让我陪你一起去，仅此而已。就是说，在飞机上陪着你……在法兰克福也是。”

我开始明白了。“你是说，他让你看着我。”

坐上飞机以后，理查德问起我在凯利公司的工作情况。对于凯利的生意他几乎一无所知，对于我们这次法兰克福之行他也知之甚少。我告诉了他那几个“鸡蛋”盒子的事以及我害怕的原因。“凯利说那些盒子很小，所以我认为那些应该是珠宝。”我告诉理查德，“而且我认为……我认为那些是偷来的珠宝。”

听到这儿，理查德愤愤不平地说道：“像这样的事凯利就不该叫你去做。为什么他不自己去？”

“但这就是问题所在，理查德。这件事由一个女孩儿来办会更轻而易举，凯利对此也心知肚明。要知道，他很精明。但是他认为我很害怕，所以派你来监视我。”

理查德坐在那里冥思苦想了一阵子。过了一会儿他转过身来对我说：“你不要去办这事了——你不要为他运送偷来的珠宝了。把这件事留给我处理。我会好好考虑，想出一个主意的。”说完他又沉默不语了。

到达法兰克福以后，我们走进了一家饭店吃早餐。吃完饭理查德出门买了份报纸，之后我们便无所事事地坐着待了半个小时。

我们要在饭店外面和凯利的朋友见面。当我们走出饭店大门时，两个男人正坐在一辆白色的奔驰车上等着我们。我们驱车驶过市区一条条川流不息的街道，开进了郊区，不久后在一栋绿树环抱的老房子前停了下来。我们都走了进去，那两个人把我们带进了后面一间昏暗的屋子，并把我们留在了那儿。屋里冷飕飕的，理查德便把他的外衣给了我。他暗自笑了笑。

我们静静地等在那里。此时另一个房间里有人正在交谈，说话声不绝于耳。接着奔驰车的司机走进来，把我们领到了楼上。一个身穿墨绿色衬衫的矮个子男人正坐在一张桌子旁，他面前的桌子上放着三个盒子。他一边手里玩着钢笔，一边仔细地打量着我们。理查德用德语与他交谈。我听不懂，但我听到了凯利的名字，之后这位穿绿衬衫的男子也开口说了些什么。

突然间屋外一阵嘈杂，有汽车声、说话声以及人们奔跑的脚步声。这名男子猛地从桌子边跳了起来，从口袋里掏出了一把枪。他试图走到窗前，但就在此刻门开了，三四名警察冲进来，扑到了他身上。经过一番搏斗，警察夺走了他的手枪，并把他按在了地上。一位年长的男子赶到了这里并开始对警察们下达指令，那是位头发花白的警察分局局长。他在屋子的另一边用流利的英语朝理查德和我喊道：“你们都还好吧？他们没有伤到你们吧？”

他又做了进一步的指示，然后走到理查德身边，伸出手来。“干得好，年轻人。我要对你的帮助表示感谢。”他又转向我说：“也谢谢你。你表现得很出色，你们两个都是。今天的任务我们所有人都完成得很好。”

我看着理查德，他冲我微微一笑。“他说的是什么意思？”我问道，但理查德并没有回答。

接着，局长向我解释道：“你的朋友今早从饭店给我打来电话。而后的事情就很简单了。我们只是在饭店附近等那辆白色的奔驰车，然后尾随而来。”

局长用他的汽车把我们送回了法兰克福，等我们抵达那里后便立即前往了他的办公室。他为我们点了咖啡。等咖啡的时候，他说：“你们已经帮了我们很大的忙，但还有一件事需要你们的协助。凯利先生……以及他的一些同伙还没有落网。我们已经为他们设下了一个圈套。”噢，是的，他知道所有关于凯利的事。

他拿出那三个盒子，摆到我们面前的桌子上，然后说：“我们希望你们能把这些东西带回英国。”

理查德和我诧异地看着他。

局长停顿了一下，然后接着说道：“不必担心。你们可能会担心英国警方那边，对吗？一切都会安然无恙的。我会告诉伦敦的总警司爱德华，你们不会遇上麻烦的。现在请仔细听好。”他继续说道，“把珠宝交给凯利就可以了。对于他这些德国朋友的“意外”他是不会知道的，你们绝对不可以向任何人提及此事以及我们今天的谈话。这一点至关重要。英国警方会监视凯利并等待时机。你们明白了吗？”

对我来说这个计划听起来危险重重，但理查德回答说：“是的，我们当然会这么做。对吗，温迪？”显然，理查德根本不怕凯利。

于是我们坐星期六晚上的航班从法兰克福将那几个盒子带了回来。直到将近午夜我们才回来，但我们立即赶往了凯利的住所。他让我们等一会儿，然后就进了另一个房间。他回来的时候满心欢喜，将手伸进口袋里，并掏出了一对金耳环。“这是给你的，温迪，是为你下周四的生日准备的。”

“不，凯利先生，不，您不必送我东西。我不能收，我真的不能收。”

“你当然可以收下它们，”凯利笑着说，“你为此干得很卖力。我们一定要给你开个生日聚会。星期四晚上咱们找些人聚聚。你想去哪里？去里兹大饭店？或者可以去迪斯科舞厅？不，我知道了……，”他唱了起来：

齐聚马克西姆，

共享欢乐时光。

我再三跟他说我不想开生日聚会，但他根本听不进去，只顾着自我陶醉了。“哦，是的，温迪。我们一定要开个生日聚会，而且你必须戴上这金耳环。那么我会觉得你是个听话的小姑娘。”他的嘴在笑，然而眼神却是冰冷的。

理查德在我耳边悄声说道：“就答应他吧，温迪。收下他的耳环，你可以以后再交还。我们现在一点儿差错也不能有。”

之后的几天漫长难熬。星期一和星期二办公室里一切都是那么平静。凯利没再跟我说起这次法兰克福之行。他大部分时间都待在自己的办公室里，不停地打电话。没有警察来，什么事也没发生。我开始感到不安。

星期三一大早理查德跑来找我。“他在里面吗？”他问道，眼睛瞅着凯利的房门。

“他还没到呢。问这个干什么？”

“把他办公室的钥匙给我。就一会儿。”

“但是理查德……”

“快点儿，温迪。他不会知道的。”

“你不能进去，理查德。他马上就会到的。这太危险了。”

“求你了，温迪。用不了太长时间。我很快就会出来。”

“但是为什么……你想要什么？”

“别问这么多。把钥匙给我，快。”

当然，最后我还是把钥匙交给了他。他打开凯利的房门，走了进去。几分钟过去了，只听他大叫一声。“我想我找到了。”

我走进去，只见理查德站在凯利的桌子前，手里拿着一封信。他朝我举起信。“这个，”他说，“会帮得上我们。”

“什么意思？”我没明白。

“听着。”他开始读手中的信……鸡蛋上周末已经拿到手了，现在就在我家里。4月18号上午11点见。

“18号，”我说。“是下个星期六。”

就在这时我听到了屋外的汽车声。“是他，”我惊呼道，“快，把信放回去。你必须立刻出去。”

我赶紧跑回办公室，理查德跟在我身后。“从那儿出去，快。”我把他推进了厨房，就在那一刻门开了，凯利走了进来。

“早上好，温迪。”他没有停下脚步，而是直接走进办公室并关上了门。

然后理查德便赶忙离开了，那天我没再看见他。第二天下午，也就是星期四，他给我打了电话。我一下就听出他有些不开心。

“出什么事了，理查德？”我问。

“我不再为凯利做事了，”他告诉我说，“今天早晨他又让我为他干点小活儿，我一口回绝了他。于是他便对我大喊大叫，并叫我走人。事情就是这样。我要再找份工作。”他轻轻笑了一声。“比这更糟的是，他没有付给我工资，所以我现在没钱给你买生日礼物。”

“噢，理查德，那不重要，”我说，“但是你会参加今晚凯利为我在马克西姆餐厅举办的生日聚会吗？没有你我是不会去的。你一定要来。”

“我来不了，温迪。我很想去，你是知道的。但是得到星期六之后我们才可以见面。”

“为什么不能见面？星期六会发生什么？还有那些……那些鸡蛋盒子又会怎样？警察正在干什么呢？凯利说我必须在生日聚会上戴上这对崭新的金耳环，可我不想戴。它们是从法兰克福带回的那几个鸡蛋盒子中的东西，它们是被盗的赃物！噢，理查德，我害怕极了！我该怎么办？”

“一切都会迎刃而解的，温迪。真的。我想到了一个计划。尽管去参加你的生日聚会吧，用不着担心。不久后我就会见到你的。”

理查德挂断了电话。自此之后我没再见到他，也没收到过他的信。

4Another birthday present

Another birthday present

Jennifer felt very sorry for Wendy. The girl's hands were shaking, and she was trying not to cry. Jennifer went and sat next to her, and put her arm round her.

'So what happened after the party on Thursday night, when the police took you away?' she asked quietly.

'Oh, it was terrible!' Wendy said. 'They took the ear-rings from me, of course, and they asked a lot of questions. I told them that the ear-rings were a present from Kelly, and I told them all about the police in Germany, but they didn't believe me. They told me to go to the office on Friday, and not to say anything to anybody. And they wanted to talk to Richard.'

Wendy turned to Jennifer. 'What am I going to do?' she asked. 'Why didn't the police believe me? Haven't the German police talked to them? And where's Richard? I can't find him.' She began to cry quietly.

Jennifer stood up. 'We must phone the police in Germany,' she said. 'I'll talk to that policeman, Barrett, who came to see me last night, and...'

Just then there was a knock on the door. Jennifer went to the door and called out, 'Who is it?'

'It's me! Richard! ' came Richard's excited voice.

Jennifer opened the door quickly. Beside Richard there were two policemen—Barrett and another taller man.

'Everything's OK,' Richard said happily. He turned to the two policemen and smiled. 'And you're not going to lock me up, are you?'

'I'm very pleased to hear that!' said Jennifer. 'But what's going on? Can somebody please explain?'

They all went into the sitting-room, and Wendy jumped up. She looked at the policemen and her face went white. Everybody began talking at once, and Richard put his arms round Wendy.

The tall policeman laughed and turned to Jennifer. 'My name is Edwards,' he said. 'I'm sorry about Barrett's visit to you last night, but we didn't know about Richard and Wendy then. I talked to the Frankfurt police an hour ago. We already knew about the stolen jewellery in Germany, of course, and we were watching Kelly. But they didn't tell us that they caught the German thieves last weekend, or about their little plan with Richard and Wendy. They wanted to keep it very secret. They were afraid that Kelly would hear about it. But we know now, and everything's all right.'

'But what about Kelly?' cried Wendy. 'And the egg boxes...?'

Barrett smiled. 'You'll have to find a new boss. Kelly is going to be in prison for a long time. We got him this morning. But it's Richard's story. He's been very helpful to us. He can tell you all about it.'

The two policemen left, and Jennifer turned to her young brother. He was sitting with his arm round Wendy, and her face was now bright and happy.

'Well!' Jennifer said. 'Start talking, Richard!'

'I've told Jennifer all about last week,' Wendy explained. 'And she was in Maxim's on Thursday night. But what happened this morning?'

Richard laughed. 'When I looked in Kelly's office last Wednesday, I found that letter about the "eggs". You remember, Wendy? Well, the German policeman told us to do nothing, but I wanted the British police to catch Kelly. Perhaps they were watching Kelly carefully, but I wanted to be sure. So early this morning I went to the police station and told them about the letter. They were not very friendly and they kept me in the police station. But they went to Kelly's house at eleven o'clock. They found Kelly there and two other men, who were buying the stolen jewellery from Kelly. So they brought Kelly and the two other men into the police station...and the egg boxes, of course. Kelly was very angry, and told the police that Wendy and I were the thieves! I told Barrett and Edwards about the German policeman's plan again and again, and in the end they telephoned Germany and talked to the inspector in Frankfurt. He explained everything. So here we are!'

Richard laughed again, happily. He put his hands in his pockets. 'And here's twenty pounds for my big sister, and a little birthday present for my favourite girl.'

Jennifer looked at him. She suddenly felt very happy about her brother. ' You can keep the money,' she said. 'It's not important. But I only gave it to you on Thursday night,' she said. 'How...?'

'I've got a new job,' said Richard. 'Started yesterday. And this time I'm not working for a jewellery thief!'

Wendy opened her present, and laughed for the first time that day. 'Oh look!' she said. 'It's some gold ear-rings! They're lovely.'

Richard laughed too. 'They're only small ear-rings, Wendy, but I can tell you this—they did not come from Frankfurt in an egg box!'

feel sorry for have pity or sympathy for (a person) 对……感到可惜

lock vt. to put someone in prison 把（某人）关进监狱

again and again repeatedly 再三地

favourite adj. preferred to all others 特别受喜爱的

lovely adj. beautiful or attractive 美丽的；可爱的

4 ．又一个生日礼物

珍妮弗对温迪深感同情。这个女孩儿的手在发抖，她试图压抑住自己不哭。珍妮弗走过去坐到她身旁，搂住了她。

“那么星期四晚上的生日聚会上警察将你带走后又发生了什么？”她轻声问道。

“噢，简直糟糕透了！”温迪说，“不用说，他们从我这里拿走了耳环，接着他们又问了很多问题。我告诉他们耳环是凯利送我的礼物，并将德国警方的事情原原本本地全告诉了他们，但他们却不相信我。他们让我星期五去办公室，而且对任何人都要守口如瓶。另外，他们还想跟理查德谈一谈。”

温迪转向珍妮弗。“我该怎么办呢？”她问，“警察为什么不相信我？难道德国警方还没有跟他们进行沟通吗？还有，理查德在哪里？我找不到他。”她开始小声地哭了起来。

珍妮弗站起身。“我们必须给德国警方打电话，”她说，“我要跟那个警察，巴雷特，谈一谈。他昨晚找过我，还……”

这时门响了。珍妮弗走到门前，大声问道，“是谁啊？”

“是我！理查德！”门外传来了理查德激动的声音。

珍妮弗马上打开了门，只见在理查德身边站着两名警察——巴雷特和另外一位个头较高的男子。

“一切顺利，”理查德高兴地说。他朝两个警察笑了笑，“你们不会把我关起来了，对吗？”

“听到这个我真是太高兴了！”珍妮弗说，“但发生了什么事？有谁能给我解释一下吗？”

当他们全都走进客厅时，温迪一下子站了起来。她看着警察，脸色顿时煞白。很快大家开始交谈起来，理查德搂住了温迪。

高个子警察笑着转向珍妮弗。“我叫爱德华，”他说。“对于昨晚巴雷特的来访我深表歉意，不过那时我们还不知道理查德和温迪的事。一个小时以前我才跟法兰克福警方通了话。我们已经知道了德国珠宝被盗一事，当然，我们一直在监视着凯利。但他们并没有告诉我们他们已于上周末抓获了德国的小偷，也没有说他们和理查德以及温迪之间的小计划。他们怕凯利会有所耳闻，想将此事保密。不过我们现在已经知道了，而且一切都顺利完成了。”

“但是凯利呢？”温迪喊道，“还有那几个鸡蛋盒子……？”

巴雷特笑了。“你得去找个新老板了。凯利将在牢里待很久。今天早晨我们抓到了他。不过，那就要听听理查德讲故事了。他帮了我们的大忙。他会将事情的始末全都告诉你。”

两名警察离去了，珍妮弗转向她的弟弟。他正搂着温迪坐在那里。此时温迪已是神采奕奕，一脸阳光。

“好啦！”珍妮弗说，“开始讲吧，理查德。”

“上周的事情我已全都讲给珍妮弗听了，”温迪解释道。“而且星期四晚上她恰好也在马克西姆餐厅。但是今天早晨又发生了什么？”

理查德笑了。“上个星期三当我进凯利的房间查看时，我发现了那封有关‘鸡蛋’的信。你还记得吧，温迪？唉，德国警方让我们别轻举妄动，但我希望英国警方能抓到凯利。或许他们正严密地监视着凯利的一举一动，但我想得到确认。所以今天早上我去了警察局，将信上所说的内容告诉了他们。他们表现得不太友好，并将我扣留在了那里。不过11点的时候他们还是去了凯利家，在那儿发现了凯利和另外两名男子，这两个人正要从凯利那里购买偷来的珠宝。于是他们将凯利及那两名男子带回了警察局……当然，还有那几个鸡蛋盒子。凯利大发雷霆，告诉警察温迪和我是偷窃珠宝的小偷。我将德国警方的计策跟巴雷特和爱德华重复了一遍又一遍，最后他们给德国打了电话，并和法兰克福的警察分局局长通了话。局长将事情全盘解释了一遍。所以我们都来了这儿！”

理查德又开心地笑了。他把手伸进了口袋里。“这20英镑是还给姐姐的，这件小生日礼物则送给我最心爱的女孩儿。”

珍妮弗看了看他，她忽然间为这个弟弟感到无比开心。“这些钱你自己留着吧，”她说。“这并不重要。但这是星期四晚上我刚刚给你的，”她说，“怎么……？”

“我已经找到了一份新工作，”理查德说。“昨天开始上班的。这次我不会再为一个珠宝大盗做事了！”温迪打开了礼物，这是她一天里第一次笑。“哦，看呐！”她说，“是对金耳环！真漂亮。”

理查德也笑了。“只是对小耳环，温迪，但我可以向你保证——它们与法兰克福的鸡蛋盒子毫不相干。”

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1．Read the story introduction . What do you know now about the story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Richard is always borrowing money.

YES □／NO □

2) Richard has a good job.

YES □／NO □

3) Jennifer worries about her brother.

YES □／NO □

4) The police are looking for Richard.

YES □／NO □

5) The police are looking for Jennifer.

YES □／NO □

6) Richard went to Frankfurt by plane.

YES □／NO □

7) Jennifer has some expensive gold ear-rings.

YES □／NO □

2．What will you find out in this story? Can you guess? Choose some names to answer these questions.

Richard/Jennifer/Richard's girl friend/Another person

1) Who stole the ear-rings?

2) Who gave the ear-rings to Richard's girl friend?

3) Who brought the ear-rings from Frankfurt to England?

4) Who gets into trouble with the police?

5) Who asks Jennifer for help?

6) Who helps the police to catch a thief?

ACTIVITIES

While Reading

1．Read Chapter 1. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)? Change the false sentences into true ones.

1) Richard wanted to borrow twenty pounds.

2) Jennifer was cross so she didn't give Richard the money.

3) Jennifer went to Maxim's restaurant alone.

4) The girl who was having a birthday party looked happy.

5) A man called Joe fell and cut his face on some glass.

6) Jennifer and Claire took the man to hospital.

7) The girl with expensive gold ear-rings was taken away by the police.

8) Jennifer worried about her brother.

9) Jennifer knew that Richard worried about everything.

2．Read Chapter 2, and then answer these questions.

Who

1) ... phoned to speak to Jennifer?

2) ... was waiting for Jennifer outside her flat?

3) ... was Mr Joe Kelly?

4) ... was Wendy?

5) ... went to Germany last weekend?

6) ... was a criminal?

7) ... came to see Jennifer the next day?

3．Before you read Chapter 3, can you guess why Wendy wants to talk to Jennifer? Choose some of these answers.

1) Because she is afraid and doesn't know what to do.

2) Because she wants to borrow money.

3) Because she is angry with Richard.

4) Because she is worried about Richard.

4．Read Chapter 3. Choose the best question-word for these questions, and then answer them.

What/Where/Why

1) ... did Wendy want to keep her job?

2) ... was Kelly's business?

3) ... did Kelly want Wendy to go at the weekend?

4) ... did Kelly want Wendy to bring back?

5) ... did Richard go with Wendy on the business trip?

6) ... did Richard do after breakfast in Frankfurt?

7) ... did Kelly's friends drive Richard and Wendy?

8) ... did the German police come to the house?

9) ... was in the egg boxes?

10) ... did the police ask Richard and Wendy to do?

11) ... did Kelly give Wendy for her birthday?

12) ... did Richard find a letter about the 'eggs'?

13) ... was Richard looking for another job?

14) ... didn't Wendy want to wear the ear-rings at her party?

5．Before you read Chapter 4, can you guess what happens? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Jennifer takes Wendy to the police.

YES □／NO □

2) The stolen jewellery is never found.

YES □／NO □

3) The police catch Kelly with Richard's help.

YES □／NO □

4) Richard borrows more money from Jennifer.

YES □／NO □

5) Richard gives Wendy some gold ear-rings.

YES □／NO □

6．Read Chapter 4. Then join these halves of sentences.

1) When Richard arrived at Jennifer's flat, ...

2) At first Jennifer and Wendy were afraid, ...

3) Richard wanted the British police to catch Kelly, ...

4) The police went to Kelly's house at eleven o'clock...

5) At the police station Kelly said that Wendy and Richard were the thieves, ...

6) Jennifer felt very happy about Richard...

7) Richard also gave Wendy a birthday present, ...

8) but then the police and Richard explained everything.

9) because he wanted to give the twenty pounds back to her.

10) there were two policemen with him.

11) which made Wendy laugh for the first time that day.

12) and found Kelly, two other men, and the egg boxes.

13) but the police phoned the inspector in Frankfurt and learnt the true story.

14) so he told them about the 'eggs' letter.

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1．Match the people with the sentences. Then use the sentences to write about each person. Use pronouns (he, she, him, her, his) and linking words (and, but, so).

Jennifer/Richard/Wendy/Kelly

Example: Jennifer is a quiet, sensible person, and she...

1) ________ is a criminal.

2) ________ is Jennifer's brother.

3) Jennifer is a quiet, sensible person.

4) ________ is fifteen years younger than Jennifer.

5) ________ is Richard's girl friend.

6) ________ is a kind sister.

7) ________ uses other people for criminal business.

8) ________ couldn't find Richard after her birthday party.

9) ________ is sometimes cross with Richard.

10) ________ has had a lot of girl friends.

11) ________ was Richard's and Wendy's boss.

12) ________ can never say 'no' to Richard.

13) ________ went to Richard's sister to ask for help.

14) ________ thinks Wendy is very, very special.

15) ________ is in prison now.

2．What did Richard say to Kelly about Kelly's 'little job' (see here )? Complete Richard's part of the conversation. (Use as many words as you like.)

KELLY: Sit down, Richard. I have a little job for you on Friday night.

RICHARD: What ________?

KELLY: It's not a difficult job, but it's important. I want you to drive a car to Liverpool, and come back by train.

RICHARD: I don't think ________.

KELLY: I'm not interested in what you want. I'm TELLING you to do this. I'm the person who pays you.

RICHARD: Yes, but I won't ________.

KELLY: Criminal? It's just driving a car to Liverpool.

RICHARD: Well, I'm not ________.

KELLY: Right. You've just lost your job—and you can go now.

RICHARD: What about ________?

KELLY: I'm paying you nothing. GET OUT!

3．Here are new titles for the four chapters. Put the titles in two groups (one about people, one about things). Then put the titles in each group in the best order for the story.

Richard explains

The stolen ear-rings

The birthday party ear-rings

Richard in Frankfurt

Richard borrows money

The egg-box ear-rings

The last ear-rings

Richard in trouble

4．Put these 15 words into two groups, under these headings.

PEOPLE 　PLACES

airport, boss, criminal, detective, flat, garage, hospital, hotel, inspector, nurse, office, patient, surgery, thief, waiter

Now find the fifteen words in the word search, and draw lines through them. The words go from left to right, and from top to bottom.

Now write down all the letters that don't have a line through them (begin with the first line and go across each line to the end). You will have 37 letters, which will make a sentence of 10 words.

1) What is the sentence?

2) Who said it, and to whom?

3) What was the person talking about?

5．On Saturday Richard went to the police about the 'eggs' letter. Put their conversation in the right order, and write in the speakers' names. Richard speaks first (number 3).

1) ________ 'Yes, we did, but the German police asked us to bring it back. They had a plan—'

2) ________ 'How do you know it's in Kelly's house?'

3) ________ 'I have something to tell you about Joe Kelly.'

4) ________ 'Eleven o'clock? Right. You wait here, Mr Walton. We'll talk to you later.'

5) ________ 'He's got some stolen jewellery an—'

6) ________ 'Plan? We don't know anything about a plan, but we want this jewellery. Where is it, Mr Walton?'

7) ________ 'Because I saw a letter in his office. And he's metting some people at his house at eleven o'clock.'

8) ________ 'Joe Kelly? Go on, Mr Walton, we're listening.'

9) ________ 'It's in Kelly's house, in three egg boxes, and—'

10) ________ 'And you and your girl friend went to Frankfurt to get the jewellery for him, didn't you, Mr Walton?'

6．What did you think about the people in this story? Choose some names and complete some of these sentences.

Jennifer/Richard/Wendy/Joe Kelly

1) I liked/didn't like ________ because________.

2) I felt sorry for ________ when/because ________.

3) I felt angry with ________ when/because ________.

京权图字 01-2006-3285

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

森林王子：英汉对照／（英）吉卜林（Kipling, R.）著；（英）莫厄特（Mowat, R.）改写；张志纯译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2006.6（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-5529-9

Ⅰ．森…　Ⅱ．①吉…②莫…③张…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②儿童故事—作品集—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2013）第228554号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 田　娜

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2006年6月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-5529-9

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


在印度南部的群山之中，一个人类的婴儿躺在山洞里，又温暖又安全。他挤在小狼崽们中间，旁边卧着狼妈妈，可是他一点儿也不害怕。洞穴外，食人虎希尔汗正愤怒地咆哮着，想要杀死那个婴儿。“没门儿！”狼妈妈说道，“这个人崽儿是我的，他会活下去，和狼群一起奔跑，并且成为我的儿子。我要叫他莫格利。”

许多年过去了，那个人崽儿莫格利和小狼们一起成长起来。在他的老师老棕熊巴鲁和黑豹巴格拉的教导下，他懂得了“森林法则”。在森林中他屡入险境，可也交到了不少动物朋友。

当然他还有个敌人。食人虎希尔汗对他耿耿于怀。老虎在等待机会，期待着有一天能够抓住这个人崽儿，然后杀死他。





THE JUNGLE BOOK


In the hills of Southern India a baby lies warm and safe in a cave. He lies among wolf-cubs, next to Mother Wolf's side, and he is not afraid. Outside the cave Shere Khan, the man-eating tiger, roars angrily, wanting to kill. 'No!' says Mother Wolf. 'The man's cub belongs to me. He will live, to run with the other wolves, to be my son. And I will call him Mowgli.'

The years pass, and Mowgli the man's cub grows up with the wolves. He learns the Law of the Jungle from his teachers, Baloo the old brown bear and Bagheera the black panther. He has many adventures, and many friends among the animals of the jungle.

But he still has an enemy. Shere Khan the tiger has not forgotten. He waits for the day when he can catch the man's cub — and kill him.





1Mowgli's brothers


Mowgli's brothers

One very warm evening in the Seeonee hills in Southern India, Father Wolf woke up from his day's rest. Next to him lay Mother Wolf, with their four cubs beside her.

'It's time to look for food,' said Father Wolf, and he stood up to leave the cave.

'Good luck,' said a voice. It was the jackal, Tabaqui, who eats everything and anything, even pieces of old clothes from the villages. The wolves of India do not like him, because he runs around making trouble and telling bad stories about them.

'Shere Khan, the tiger, is coming to look for food here,' said Tabaqui.

'He can't,' cried Father Wolf. 'By the Law of the Jungle he must tell us first, before he comes here to hunt.'

'Shere Khan has a bad leg, so he can kill only cows. In the village near him the people are angry. That is why he is coming here — to start hunting in a new place. Listen, you can hear him now,' said Tabaqui.

'He is a stupid animal,' said Father Wolf, and he listened to the angry noise of a tiger who has not eaten. 'No one will find anything to eat in the jungle now.'

'But Shere Khan is hunting man, not animal, tonight,' said Tabaqui.

The Law of the Jungle says that animals must not hunt man, because man-killing brings men with guns. Then everybody in the jungle is in danger.

Father and Mother Wolf listened to Shere Khan in the jungle not far away. Then, suddenly, they heard a noise much nearer to them.

'It's a man. A man's cub. Look!' said Father Wolf.

And there in front of them stood a baby who could just walk. He looked up at Father Wolf and laughed.

'Is that a man's cub?' asked Mother Wolf. 'I have never seen one. Bring it here.'

The baby, small and with no clothes, pushed its way between the cubs to get near to Mother Wolf. 'Look,' she said, 'he is taking his meal with the others.'

'I have heard that this has happened before,' said Father Wolf, 'but I have never seen it until now. Look at him. He is not afraid.'

Suddenly, it was dark, and Shere Khan was pushing his great head in through the mouth of the cave.

'We are pleased that you visit us, Shere Khan,' said Father Wolf, but his eyes were angry. 'What do you need?'

'I am hunting a man's cub,' said Shere Khan. 'Its father and mother have run away. Give it to me.'

Father Wolf knew that Shere Khan could not get inside the cave because he was too big.

'The man's cub belongs to us,' he said. 'The Pack — the other wolves and I — will decide. If we want to kill him, we will kill him, not you.'

'The man's cub belongs to me! It is I, Shere Khan, who speaks!' And Shere Khan's roar filled the cave with noise.

'No!' came the angry voice of Mother Wolf. 'The man's cub belongs to me! We will not kill him. He will live, to run with the other wolves, to be my son. Now go away, fish-killer, eater of cubs! Go!'

Shere Khan went. He knew that he could not fight Mother Wolf in the cave. 'But I will have this man-cub one day, you thieves!' he shouted from the jungle.

'Do you really want to keep him, Mother?' said Father Wolf.

'Keep him?' said Mother Wolf. 'Yes. He came here by night, alone and hungry, but he was not afraid. Yes, I will keep him. And I will call him Mowgli, the frog.'

'But what will the other wolves of the Pack say?'

By the Law of the Jungle all wolf-cubs must come to the Pack when they can walk. The wolves look at the cubs carefully. Then the cubs are free to run anywhere because all the adult wolves know them and will not attack them.

*　　*　　*

When the four wolf-cubs could run a little, Father Wolf took them and Mowgli and Mother Wolf to the Meeting Rock. Here, the hundred wolves of the Wolf-Pack met every month when the moon was full.

The leader of the Pack was Akela, a great grey wolf. Each new wolf-cub came to stand in front of him and Akela said, 'Look well, O Wolves. Look well!'

At the end, Father Wolf pushed Mowgli into the circle of wolves. Then from the trees outside the circle they heard the voice of Shere Khan.

'The man-cub belongs to me. Give him to me!'

Akela did not move but said only, 'Look well! Who speaks for this man-cub? Two voices, who are not his father and mother, must speak for him.'

There is only one other animal who can come to these wolf-meetings — Baloo, the sleepy brown bear. His job is to teach the Law of the Jungle to the wolf-cubs.

'I speak for the man-cub,' came Baloo's deep voice. 'Let him run with the Pack. I myself will teach him.'

'We need another voice to speak for him,' said Akela.

Silently, another animal jumped down into the circle. It was Bagheera the panther, black as the night, clever, strong, and dangerous.

'O Akela, will you let me speak?' said Bagheera softly. 'The Law of the Jungle says it is possible to buy the life of a cub. It is bad to kill a man-cub. He cannot hurt you. Let him live with you, and I will give you a fat cow, newly killed, which lies in the jungle not far away.'

The voices of the wolves replied, 'Let him live.' They were always hungry and they wanted to get the dead cow. Soon they went away, and there were only Akela, Bagheera, Baloo, and Mowgli's wolf family left. They could hear the angry roars of Shere Khan in the night.

'It is good,' said Akela. 'Men are clever. Perhaps this man-cub will help us when he is older. Take him away,' he said to Father Wolf, 'and teach him well.'

And so, because of Baloo's good word and the present of a cow, Mowgli now belonged to the Seeonee Wolf-Pack.

*　　*　　*

The story of Mowgli's life among the wolves fills many books, but we must jump ten or eleven years now. Father Wolf, Baloo, and Bagheera taught Mowgli well, and he learnt everything about the jungle. He knew the meaning of every sound in the trees, of every song of the birds, of every splash in the water. He learnt to climb trees like a monkey, to swim in the rivers like a fish, and to hunt for his food as cleverly as any animal in the jungle.

cub n. a young lion, bear etc. 幼兽

jackal n. a wild animal like a dog that lives in Asia and Africa and eats the remaining parts of dead animals （亚洲和非洲的）豺；胡狼

pack n. a group of wild animals that hunt together （野兽的）一群

speak for to speak in support of someone 替……说话

panther n. a black leopard 黑豹

splash n. the sound of a liquid hitting something or being moved around quickly （液体的）溅泼声；洒落声





1 ．莫格利的兄弟们


温暖的夜色笼罩着印度南部的西奥尼群山。休憩了一天的狼爸爸醒了过来。他的身边躺着狼妈妈，还有四只小狼崽。

“该出去找点儿吃的了。”狼爸爸说道。他站起身，准备离开洞穴。

“祝你好运。”一个声音说道。是豺狼塔巴奎，一个什么都吃的家伙，连从村子里找到的旧衣裳碎片也不放过。印度的狼群都不喜欢他，因为他到处乱窜，制造麻烦，还老是讲他们的坏话。

“老虎希尔汗就要到这里来觅食了。”塔巴奎说道。

“岂有此理，”狼爸爸叫道，“按照‘森林法则’，他在来这里捕猎之前 ，必须提前通知我们。”

“希尔汗的一条腿不好使，只能抓牛来吃。附近的村民气坏了。所以他就到这里来了——换个新地方开始捕猎。听，他来了。”塔巴奎说道。

“这个愚蠢的家伙，”听着饥饿的老虎愤怒的吼叫声，狼爸爸说道，“这下子再也没有谁能在森林里找到吃的了。”

“可是希尔汗今晚是来吃人的，不是吃动物。”塔巴奎说道。

根据“森林法则”，动物是不可以猎杀人的，因为一旦有人被杀，人们就会带着枪来到这里。这样一来，森林里所有的动物都会陷入危险之中。

狼爸爸和狼妈妈听着不远处的丛林中希尔汗的动静。突然，他们听到从更近的地方传来一个声音。

“是人，一个人崽儿。看！”狼爸爸叫道。

他们面前站着一个刚学会走路的婴儿。他抬起头，看着狼爸爸，然后笑了。

“那就是人崽儿吗？”狼妈妈说道，“我还从来没见过呢，快把他带过来。”

孩子个头很小，身上也没有穿衣服。他在狼崽们之间挤出一条路来，想走到狼妈妈的身边。“看，”她说，“他和其他孩子一样来吃奶了。”

“我听说以前曾发生过这样的事，”狼爸爸说道，“但是我直到今天才亲眼看到。你瞧，他一点儿都不害怕。”

突然，洞里暗了下来，原来是希尔汗的大脑袋从洞口挤了进来。

“欢迎来访，希尔汗，”狼爸爸嘴上说道，眼中却透出一股怒气，“有何贵干？”

“我正在抓一个人崽儿。”希尔汗回答道，“他的父母已经逃走了。把他给我。”

狼爸爸知道希尔汗没法钻进洞来，因为他的个头太大。

“这个人崽儿是我们的，”他说，“怎么处置他，我和其他狼自有主张。如果我们想杀死他，我们 就会杀了他，而不是由你来决定。”

“这个人崽儿是我的！应该由我希尔汗说了算！”整个山洞都回荡着希尔汗的怒吼声。

“没门儿！”狼妈妈发出了愤怒的叫声，“这个人崽儿是我的。我们不会杀死他。他会活下去，和狼群一起奔跑，并且成为我的儿子。滚开，你这个只敢抓鱼和小孩吃的家伙，滚！”

希尔汗离开了，自知自己无法在洞穴里和母狼争斗。“总有一天我会抓到这个人崽儿的，你们这些小偷！”森林中传来了他的吼声。

“你真的想留下他吗，孩子他妈？”狼爸爸问道。

“留下他？”狼妈妈回答道，“当然。他晚上一个人来到这里，还饿着肚子，可是他一点儿都不害怕。是的，我要留下他。我还要给他取个名字，就用那只青蛙的名字，叫莫格利。”

“但是狼族里的其他狼会怎么说？”

根据“森林法则”，狼崽们学会走路以后，他们都必须来到狼族里所有狼的面前。群狼会仔细端详这些狼崽。然后，狼崽们就可以四处奔跑了，因为所有的成年狼已经认识了他们，不会再攻击他们了。

*　　*　　*

四只狼崽会跑以后，狼爸爸带着他们和莫格利跟狼妈妈一起来到了聚会石边。每逢月圆，狼族数以百计的狼都会在这里举行一次聚会。

狼族的首领是一只名叫阿克拉的大灰狼。一只只新露面的幼狼纷纷走到了他的面前，阿拉克说着：“大家看仔细！看仔细点！”

最后，狼爸爸将莫格利推到了狼群中间。就在这时，狼群围成的圈子外面的树林里传来了希尔汗的声音。

“这个人类的孩子是我的，把他还给我！”

阿克拉没有动，只是说道：“看仔细点！谁愿意为这个人类的婴儿说情？必须有他父母之外的两个人为他说情。”

狼群的聚会只允许除了狼之外的一个动物参加，那就是每天都昏昏欲睡的棕熊巴鲁。他的任务就是教幼狼们学会“森林法则”。

“我来替这个人类的孩子说说情，”巴鲁用他那低沉的声音说道，“让他和狼族待在一起吧，我来负责教导他。”

“我们还需要一个人来替他说情。”阿克拉说道。

另一只动物无声无息地跃到了狼群中间，原来是黑豹巴格拉。他全身漆黑，聪明、强壮而危险。

“噢，阿克拉，你愿意让我说上两句吗？”巴格拉轻声说道，“‘森林法则’说可以交换下一个小崽儿的性命。杀掉人崽儿没什么好果子吃。他伤害不了你们，所以让他和你们一起生活吧。我愿意给你们一头刚刚杀死的肥牛，就在不远处的林子里。”

狼群回答道：“让他留下来吧。”他们总是饥肠辘辘，所以对那头死牛很感兴趣。很快他们便四下散去，只剩下阿克拉、巴格拉、巴鲁以及莫格利一家。夜色中能听到希尔汗发出阵阵怒吼。

“很好，”阿克拉说道，“人类很聪明，说不定这个孩子长大以后还可以帮助我们。把他带走吧，”他对狼爸爸说，“好好教导他。”

就这样，由于巴鲁的美言加上牛的功劳，莫格利成为了西奥尼山上狼族的一员。

*　　*　　*

有关莫格利在狼群中的故事能够写上好几本书，但是现在我们必须跳过十来年。狼爸爸、巴鲁和巴格拉悉心教导莫格利，让他学会了有关森林的一切事情。对于林间的每一种声音，鸟儿的每一支歌以及水中的每一次水花飞溅，他都知道其中的含义。他学会了像猴子一样爬树，像鱼儿一样在河里游泳，以及像任何动物一样在林中敏捷地捕猎。





2The Monkey-People


The Monkey-People

Baloo, the old brown bear, loved teaching Mowgli. He taught him how to speak to the different Jungle-People, and he taught him the important Master-Words. But Mowgli sometimes got bored with all the lessons. One day, when he was not listening, Baloo hit him, very softly, on the head, and Mowgli ran away angrily.

Bagheera, the black panther, was not happy about this. 'Remember how small he is,' he said to Baloo. 'How can his little head hold all your long words?'

'These words will keep him safe from the birds, from the Snake-People, and all the animals that hunt,' said Baloo. 'It is true that he is only small. But no one will hurt him, if he remembers all the Master-Words. Come, Mowgli!' he called into the trees. 'Come and say the words again.'

Mowgli climbed down from a tree and came to sit next to them. 'I will say the words to Bagheera, not you , fat old Baloo!' he said crossly.

'Very well,' said Baloo sadly. 'Say the words for the Hunting-People.'

'We are of one blood, you and I,' said Mowgli.

'Good. Now for the birds.'

Mowgli said the same words but with the sound of a bird.

'Now for the Snake-People,' said Baloo.

Mowgli then made the long 'ssss' sound, which was like no other noise, only the noise of a snake.

'Good,' said Baloo gently. 'One day you will thank me for my lessons. Now you will be safe in the jungle, because no snake, no bird, no animal will hurt you. You do not need to be afraid of anyone.'

'And I shall have my people and go with them high up in the trees,' shouted Mowgli.

'What did you say, Mowgli?' asked Baloo, surprised. 'Have you been with the Bandar-log , the Monkey-People?'

Mowgli could hear that Baloo was angry, and he saw too that Bagheera's green eyes were cold and hard.

'When Baloo hurt my head,' said Mowgli, 'I went away, and the grey monkeys came down from the trees and talked to me. They were kind to me and gave me nice things to eat. Then they took me up into the trees. They said that I was their brother, and they wanted me to be their leader one day. Why have you never told me about the Monkey-People? Bad old Baloo! They play all day and don't do lessons, and I will play with them again.'

'Listen, man-cub,' said Baloo angrily. 'I have taught you the Law for all the Jungle-People, but not for the Monkey-People. They have no law. Their ways are not our ways. They are noisy and dirty, and they think that they are a great people, but then they forget everything. The rest of the Jungle-People do not talk to them, or even think about them. Remember what I tell you.'

Mowgli listened, and was sorry. But all this time the Bandar-log were above them in the trees, listening and watching. They followed Mowgli and his friends through the jungle until it was time for the midday rest. Mowgli lay between his friends and went to sleep, saying, 'I will never talk to or play with the Monkey-People again.'

When he woke up, he was high in a tree and there were hands holding his legs and arms — hard, strong, little hands. Down below Baloo was shouting angrily, and Bagheera was trying to climb up the tree, but he was too heavy for the thin branches. The monkeys, shouting and laughing, carried Mowgli between them and began their journey along the monkey roads, which are high in the trees.

It was a wild, exciting journey. The monkeys jumped from treetop to treetop, crashing through the leaves and branches. At first Mowgli was afraid of falling, but then he began to think. He must tell Baloo and Bagheera where he was. High up in the blue sky he saw Chil the kite. The big bird saw that the monkeys were carrying a man-cub. He flew down to look, and was surprised to hear the birdcall of the kites: 'We are of one blood, you and I!'

'Who are you?' called Chil.

'Mowgli, the man-cub!' came the reply. 'Watch where they take me, and tell Baloo and Bagheera.'

'I will,' called Chil, and he flew high above the trees and watched with his far-seeing eyes.

Monkeys can travel fast when they want to, and by now Baloo and Bagheera were a long way behind.

'We cannot follow the Bandar-log through the trees,' said Baloo, 'and we will never catch them. But they are afraid of Kaa, the big python. He can climb as easily as the monkeys, and he eats them. Perhaps he will help us.' And so Baloo and Bagheera went to look for Kaa the python.

They found him, lying in the sun — ten metres of brown-and-yellow snake, beautiful and dangerous.

'What news?' called Kaa when he saw them.

'We are looking for food,' said Baloo. He knew that you must not hurry Kaa. He is too big.

'Let me come with you,' said Kaa hungrily. 'I have not eaten for days.'

'We are following the Bandar-log ,' said Baloo. 'Those noisy, dirty thieves have stolen our man-cub. And we love our man-cub very much, Kaa!'

'The Bandar-log ,' said Bagheera cleverly, 'are very much afraid of you, Kaa. But they say bad things about you, and call you "old yellow fish", I hear.'

'Tss! Tss!' said Kaa. 'I will teach them not to call me bad names. Where did they take your man-cub? They will be tired of him quickly, and that is bad for him. '

'Up! Up! Look up, Baloo!'

Baloo looked up and saw Chil the kite, high in the sky.

'What is it?' called Baloo.

'I have seen Mowgli the man-cub with the Bandar-log . He knew the Master-Word. They have taken him to the monkey-city, the Lost City.'

Baloo and Bagheera knew of the monkey-city. Men lived there once, but they left hundreds of years ago. Nobody went there now, only the Bandar-log .

'We must leave at once,' said Bagheera. 'It is a long way.'

'I will come as fast as I can,' said Baloo, 'but you and Kaa can go faster. I will follow you.'

*　　*　　*

The Lost City was very old. There were many beautiful buildings, but the walls were broken and full of holes, and there were tall trees in houses that were now open to the sky. The Monkey-People called the place their city, and ran around everywhere, in and out of the empty houses, up and down the fruit trees in the old gardens.

Now Mowgli was in their city, and the Monkey-People were very pleased with themselves. 'This boy can help us,' they said. 'He can teach us how to make things, because men are clever with their hands.' But monkeys make many plans, and always forget them five minutes later.

When Mowgli arrived in the city, he was tired and hungry. 'Bring me food,' he said, and twenty or thirty monkeys ran to bring him fruit. But they started fighting and forgot to take any fruit back to Mowgli.

Mowgli knew that he was in a bad place. 'Baloo was right,' he thought. 'The Bandar-log have no Law and their ways are not our ways. I must try to get away. Baloo will surely be angry with me, but that is better than life with the Bandar-log .'

But when Mowgli went to the walls of the city, the monkeys pulled him back. 'You are very happy here with us. We are great. We are wonderful. We all say so, and so it is true,' they shouted.

'Don't they ever sleep?' thought Mowgli. He looked up at the sky. 'There's a cloud coming over the moon. Perhaps I can run away when it's dark. But I am tired.'

bored adj. tired and impatient because you do not think something. is interesting 厌烦的；不感兴趣的

crossly adv. angrily or being annoyed 生气地；恼怒地

leader n. the person who directs or controls a team, organization, country etc. 领导者；领袖

midday n. the middle of the day, twelve o'clock 中午；正午

kite n. a type of hawk 鸢

crash v. to hit something or someone extremely hard while you are moving causing a lot of damage, or making a lot of noise （哗啦啦地）猛撞；猛击

far-seeing adj. able to see what happens in the distance 视力极好的；远视的

python n. a large tropical snake that kills animals for food by winding itself around them and crushing them （热带地区的）大蟒

wonderful adj. making you admire someone or something very much （某人、某物）令人惊叹的；奇妙的





2 ．猴群


老棕熊巴鲁喜欢教导莫格利。他教莫格利如何与森林里不同的动物交谈，还教给他非常重要的口令。但是莫格利有时候会对这些课程感到厌倦。有一天，他没有认真听讲，巴鲁在他的头上轻轻敲了一下，莫格利生气地跑开了。

黑豹巴格拉对这件事感到很不高兴。“别忘了他的个头那么小，”他对巴鲁说道，“他那颗小脑袋怎么可能装得下你所有的长篇大论？”

“这些话可以让他免遭鸟儿、蛇以及所有捕猎动物的袭击，”巴鲁回答道，“他的确还小，可是如果他能记住所有的口令，就没有谁能伤害他了。快回来，莫格利！”他朝着树林里喊道，“快回来把那些话再说一遍。”

莫格利从一棵树上爬下来，坐到了他们的身旁。“我会把那些话背给巴格拉听，而不是你 ，又胖又老的巴鲁！”他生气地说道。

“好吧，”巴鲁伤心地说，“看到狩猎的人该怎么说？”

“你和我血脉相通。”莫格利回答道。

“很好。现在说说看到鸟儿该怎么说？”

莫格利把刚才的话重复了一遍，不过这次用的是鸟儿的声音。

“现在说说看到蛇族该怎么说？”

莫格利发出一阵长长的“嘶嘶”声，和蛇的声音一模一样。

“很好，”巴鲁温和地说道，“总有一天你会感谢我教给你这些课程的。现在你在森林里安全了，因为没有蛇、鸟儿或是任何动物会伤害你了。你不用再害怕任何动物。”

“那么我将拥有我的兄弟，还会和他们一块儿爬到高高的树上。”莫格利叫道。

“你说什么，莫格利？”巴鲁吃惊地问道，“你曾经和班达洛，就是那群猴子待在一起吗？”

莫格利听得出巴鲁很生气，他还发现巴格拉绿色的眼睛中闪烁出冷酷的光芒。

“巴鲁敲了我的脑袋，”莫格利说道，“所以我就逃走了。那群灰猴子跳下树来，和我说话。他们对我很好，还给我好吃的东西。接着他们把我带到树上。他们说我是他们的兄弟，希望将来我能成为他们的头领。为什么你从没告诉过我有关猴群的事，你这个又老又坏的巴鲁？他们整天玩耍，也不用上课，我还要和他们去玩。”

“听着，你这个人类的小家伙，”巴鲁生气地说，“我教给了你对付所有森林动物的法则，但是没有教你怎么对付猴群。对于他们毫无法则可言。他们和我们的方式不同。他们总是叽叽喳喳，而且很脏。他们自以为很了不起，但很快又把一切抛到脑后。森林里的其他动物都不和他们说话，甚至都不会想到他们。记住我对你说的话。”

莫格利听着，觉得有些愧疚。然而那群猴子此时正藏在他们头顶上的树丛里，偷听他们谈话，偷偷观察着他们。他们尾随着莫格利和他的朋友们在森林里穿行，直至中午休息时分。莫格利躺在他的朋友中间沉沉睡去，在梦中，他喃喃自语：“我再也不和那群猴子说话，再也不跟他们玩了。”

当他醒来的时候，他已在高高的树上，许多只手托着他的腿和胳膊——那是一些强劲有力的小手。巴鲁在树下愤怒地吼叫着，巴格拉想要爬树，但是他太沉了，那些细枝无法承受他的重量。猴子们又笑又叫。他们抬着莫格利，沿着猴子们常走的路线，在高高的树上开始了他们的旅程。

这次旅行疯狂而又刺激。猴子们在树梢上跳来跳去，压得树叶和树枝噼啪作响。起初莫格利还有些担心自己会掉下去，但不一会儿他就开始想办法。他觉得必须告诉巴鲁和巴格拉自己在哪儿。他看到那只名叫奇尔的鸢正在高高的蓝天上飞翔。这只大鸟看到猴子们抬着一个人类的小孩。他飞了下来，想看个究竟。突然，一阵鸢的叫声传入他的耳朵：“你和我血脉相通！”他不禁吃了一惊。

“你是谁？”奇尔喊道。

“莫格利，就是那个人类的小孩！”莫格利回答道，“看看他们把我带到哪儿了，然后告诉巴鲁和巴格拉。”

“我会的。”奇尔叫道，接着他飞到森林上空，用那双犀利的眼睛观察着动静。

因为猴子们可以随心所欲地快速前进，现在巴鲁和巴格拉已经被他们远远地抛在了后面。

“那些班达洛在树上钻来钻去，我们跟不上，”巴鲁说道，“我们永远也追不上他们。不过他们害怕大蟒蛇卡阿。他爬树的本领和猴子们不相上下，而且他还吃猴子。也许他会帮助我们。”于是，巴鲁和巴格拉去找蟒蛇卡阿了。

他们找到卡阿的时候，他正躺着晒太阳。卡阿是一条身长十米、棕黄相间的大蛇，既美丽又危险。

“有事吗？”卡阿看到他们问道。

“我们正在觅食。”巴鲁说。他知道不能催促卡阿，他实在是太大了。

“让我一起去吧，”卡阿饥肠碌碌地说，“我已经好些天没有吃过东西了。”

“我们正在追踪班达洛，”巴鲁说，“那群又闹腾又肮脏的小偷把我们那个人类的小孩偷走了。我们非常爱那孩子，卡阿！”

“班达洛非常害怕您，卡阿！”巴格拉机灵地接着说道，“但是他们经常说您的坏话，我听到他们说您是‘老黄鱼’。”

“嘶！嘶！”卡阿说道，“我要给他们点颜色看看，看他们还敢不敢骂我。他们把你们的小孩带到哪里去了？他们很快就会对他失去兴趣，这样一来他的情况就会很不妙。”

“上面！上面！快看上面，巴鲁！”

巴鲁抬起头，看见那只名叫奇尔的鸢正在高空中盘旋。

“发生了什么？”巴鲁叫道。

“我看见那个名叫莫格利的人类的孩子了，他和班达洛在一起。他知道口令。他们已经把他带到猴城，也就是‘失落之城’去了。”

巴鲁和巴格拉听说过猴城。人类曾经在那里居住过，但是他们在几百年前就离开了。现在除了班达洛已经没有谁去那里了。

“我们必须马上出发，”巴格拉说道，“要走好长一段路呢。”

“我会尽快赶来，”巴鲁说，“但是你和卡阿可以走快些，我会跟着你们。”

*　　*　　*

“失落之城”非常古老。城里有很多美丽的建筑，不过墙壁都已经破败不堪，千疮百孔。房子里长着参天的树木，屋顶都没了。猴群称这里为他们的城市，在里面跑来跑去。他们在空屋子里窜进窜出，在那些古老的花园里的果树上跳上跳下。

莫格利现在就在这座城里，猴子们个个沾沾自喜：“这孩子可以帮助我们，”他们说道，“他可以教我们怎么制作东西，因为人类的双手很灵巧。”不过猴子们虽然有很多计划，可总是在五分钟后就忘个精光。

莫格利到达猴城的时候又累又饿。“给我拿点吃的。”他说道。二三十只猴子跑去给他拿水果，但是他们很快就开始打打闹闹，忘记带水果给莫格利了。

莫格利知道自己的处境很糟。“巴鲁是对的。”他想，“班达洛毫无法则可言。他们和我们的方式不同。我必须试着逃走。巴鲁肯定对我很生气，但是那总比和班达洛一起生活要好。”

然而当莫格利走到城墙边时，猴子们把他拉了回去。“和我们待在一起，你在这里会过得很开心的。我们是很了不起、很出色的。我们都这么说，所以这就是真理。”他们叫嚷着。

“难道他们从不睡觉吗？”莫格利想着。他抬头望着天空：“有一片云彩就要遮住月亮了。也许我能趁着黑暗跑掉，可是我觉得好累。”





3Kaa's hunting


Kaa's hunting

Bagheera and Kaa were also watching that cloud. They were now outside the city walls, but they knew they had to be careful. There were only two of them, and there were hundreds of monkeys.

'They are over there by that house, talking about the boy,' said Bagheera. 'When the cloud hides the moon, I will attack them.'

'I will go to the higher ground at the west wall,' Kaa said, 'and come down the hill very fast. Good hunting!'

The black panther ran quickly to the crowds of monkeys and started hitting, right and left, as hard as he could. The monkeys screamed angrily, but then one of them shouted, 'There is only one here! Kill him! Kill!' And a crowd of monkeys jumped on Bagheera, biting and pulling. Another group pulled Mowgli up a wall and pushed him over. He fell down into a dark room which had no doors or windows, and he could not get out. 'Stay there,' shouted the monkeys, 'until we have killed your friend. And then we will play with you, if the snakes leave you alive.'

Mowgli heard hissing sounds in the darkness around him. 'We are of one blood, you and I,' he said, quickly giving the Snakes' Call.

'Sssss,' the snakes replied. 'We will not bite you, but stand still, Little Brother, because your feet can hurt us.'

Mowgli stood very still and listened to the fight around Bagheera. For the first time ever, the big panther was fighting for his life. Then Mowgli remembered something. There was a big tank of water near one of the buildings.

'Go to the tank, Bagheera! Get to the water!'

Bagheera heard and he knew that Mowgli was safe. Suddenly he felt stronger and he pulled himself slowly to the tank, fighting against the crowds of monkeys.

Then Baloo came running in from the jungle, shouting, 'Bagheera, I am here!' At once the monkeys jumped on him, and the bear started to hit them with his great strong arms. Mowgli heard a splash when Bagheera jumped into the tank. The monkeys were afraid of water and could not follow him there. But they stood all round the sides, ready to jump on him if he tried to get out and help Baloo.

And where was Kaa all this time? It was a hard climb up to the west wall, and Kaa moved carefully over the stones. Now he came down the hill very quickly, hungry and wanting to kill. Kaa was ten metres long, heavy and strong. He went silently into the crowd of monkeys around Baloo, and he did not need to hit twice.

When they are very young, monkeys are told about Kaa, the silent thief who can kill the strongest monkey. All monkeys are afraid of Kaa. Now they ran, with shouts of 'It's Kaa! Run! Run!'

Then Kaa opened his mouth for the first time and spoke one long hissing word. The monkeys were suddenly silent and still, and nothing moved in the city.

Bagheera pulled himself out of the tank. 'Get the man-cub out and let us go,' he said. 'I can't fight any more. And the monkeys will attack us again.'

'They will not move until I tell them to move,' said Kaa.

'We must thank you, Kaa. We could not do it without you,' said Baloo.

'I am happy to help. Where is the man-cub?' said Kaa.

'Here! In this room, but I cannot get out.'

'Take him away,' called the snakes around Mowgli. 'He dances around too much and he will stand on us.'

'Stand back, man-cub,' said Kaa. 'I will break the wall.'

With two metres of his heavy body off the ground, Kaa hit the wall very hard, five or six times. A hole opened, and Mowgli jumped quickly through it. He ran and put his arms around Baloo and Bagheera.

'Are you hurt?' asked Baloo.

'Not much,' said Mowgli, 'but the Bandar-log have hurt you badly, my friends.'

'It is nothing,' said Baloo. 'But you must thank Kaa. He has done much for you tonight.'

Mowgli turned and saw the head of the great python.

'So this is the man-cub,' said Kaa. 'He is like the Bandar-log , but not the same. Be careful, man-cub, that I do not make a mistake when I am hunting monkeys.'

'We are of one blood, you and I,' Mowgli answered. 'You have given me my life tonight. When I kill, it will be for you if you are hungry.'

'Well spoken,' said Baloo.

'You are brave, young man,' said Kaa, 'and you speak well. Now go with your friends. The moon is going down. You must not see what will happen here next.'

Slowly, never hurrying, Kaa went softly out in front of the lines of sitting monkeys and began to dance. His head moved from right to left, and his long body turned this way and that way, making circles that changed every second.

Baloo and Bagheera stood and could not move. Mowgli watched, and did not understand.

'Bandar-log ,' said the deep voice of Kaa at last. 'Can you move?'

'Without a word from you, Kaa, we cannot move.'

'Come nearer to me,' said Kaa.

The lines of monkeys came nearer, and Baloo and Bagheera walked forward, too.

'Nearer,' hissed Kaa, and they all moved forward again.

Mowgli put his hands on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away, and the two animals woke up.

'Keep your hand on me, Mowgli,' whispered Bagheera, 'or I will go back to Kaa, and walk into his mouth.'

'It's only old Kaa dancing,' said Mowgli. 'Let us go.' And the three of them went away into the jungle.

'A python's dance is dangerous to watch,' said Baloo, 'even for us. Kaa will have good hunting tonight.'

'And now, Mowgli,' said Bagheera angrily. 'Baloo and I have fought hard for you. The monkeys have bitten us and pulled us and hit us. And all this, man-cub, was because you played with the Bandar-log .'

'It is true,' said Mowgli sadly. 'I am a bad man-cub.'

'The Law of the Jungle says we must punish you,' said Bagheera. Baloo was happy that Mowgli was safe and with them again, but he could not speak against the Law.

'It is right to punish me,' said Mowgli. 'I did wrong.'

Bagheera hit him, very softly for a panther, but very heavily for a little boy. Mowgli did not cry.

'Now,' said Bagheera, 'jump on my back, Little Brother, and we will go home.'

One of the good things about Jungle Law is that, after you are punished, the matter is finished.

hide v. to keep or put something in a place where it cannot easily be seen or found 藏起来；隐藏

still adj. not moving 静止的；不动的

tank n. a large container for storing liquid or gas （盛放液体或气体的）大容器

whisper v. to speak or say something very quietly, using your breath rather than your voice 低语；耳语

punish v. to make someone suffer because they have done something wrong or broken the law 处罚；惩罚

matter n. a subject or situation that you have to think about or deal with 事情；情况





3 ．卡阿打猎


此时的巴格拉和卡阿也正看着那片云彩。他们现在就在城墙外，但是他们知道自己得小心行事。他们只有两个人，而猴子却有好几百只。

“他们就在那所房子那边，正谈论着那孩子，”巴格拉说道，“等到云彩遮住月亮，我就开始进攻。”

“我到西墙边的那块高地上去，”卡阿说道，“然后迅速从山上下来，祝我们好运！”

只见黑豹飞快地冲到猴群中，开始拼命地左右厮打。猴群中响起了愤怒的尖叫声。突然一只猴子叫道：“只有他一个！杀死他！杀！”于是一群猴子跳到巴格拉的身上，开始对他又拽又咬。另一群猴子则把莫格利拉到一堵墙上，然后把他推了下去。他掉进了一间没有门窗的黑屋子里，没法出去。“好好待着，”猴子们叫道，“直到我们宰了你的朋友。如果蛇能够放你一条生路，我们就来和你玩。”

黑暗中，莫格利听到四周传来阵阵嘶嘶声。“你和我血脉相通。”他说着，迅速发出蛇的叫声。

“嘶嘶，”蛇群回答道，“我们不会咬你，但是你得站着别动，小兄弟，因为你的脚会伤到我们。”

莫格利站在那里纹丝不动，耳朵却听着巴格拉在外面的战斗。对于这只大黑豹来说，他还是平生第一次为活命而战。突然莫格利想起了些什么。有一座房子附近有一个大水箱。

“到水箱那边去，巴格拉！那儿有水！”

巴格拉听到了这番话，知道莫格利还安然无恙。霎时间，他觉得自己强壮了起来，于是他一边和猴群战斗，一边慢慢朝水箱挪去。

正在这时，巴鲁从森林赶到了这里。他叫道：“巴格拉，我来了！”猴子们立即扑向他，棕熊开始挥舞着强壮的手臂和猴子打了起来。莫格利听到水花溅起的声音，原来是巴格拉跳进了水箱里。猴子们怕水，所以不敢跟着他跳下去。但他们把水箱团团围住，准备巴格拉一出来帮助巴鲁，就扑向他。

那么卡阿这段时间在哪里呢？要爬上西边的城墙可不太容易，卡阿得在石头间小心地穿行。现在饥肠辘辘的他从山上迅速冲下来，准备大开杀戒。卡阿足有十米长，身强力壮。他悄悄地滑进包围巴鲁的猴群中，对于他来说是每击必中。

从小时候起，猴子们就听说了卡阿的故事。据说这条蛇是个悄无声息的贼，能够杀死最强壮的猴子。所有的猴子都害怕卡阿。只见他们顿时四处逃散，嘴里还不停地喊着：“是卡阿！快跑！快跑！”

卡阿第一次张开嘴，发出了一阵长长的嘶嘶声。猴群突然安静了下来，一动不动。整个城市如一潭死水。

巴格拉挣扎着从水箱里爬了出来。“把那个孩子放出来，然后让我们走，”他说道，“我打不动了，猴子们会再次攻击我们的。”

“我不让他们动，他们是不会动的。”卡阿说道。

“我们真的很感谢你，卡阿。没有你，我们肯定不行。”巴鲁说道。

“很高兴能帮上忙。那孩子在哪儿？”卡阿问道。

“在这儿！就在这间屋子里，但是我出不去。”

“把他带走，”莫格利周围的蛇叫道，“他老是转来转去，他会踩着我们的。”

“往后退，孩子，”卡阿说道，“我来打破这堵墙。”

卡阿将自己沉重的身子抬起两米高，然后狠狠地拍打着墙面。五六次之后，墙上出现了一个洞，莫格利迅速从里面跳了出来。他跑向巴鲁和巴格拉，一把抱住了他们。

“你伤着了吗？”巴鲁问道。

“还行，”莫格利说，“但是班达洛把你们伤得不轻，我的朋友们。”

“这没什么，”巴鲁说道，“但你得好好谢谢卡阿。为了救你，他今晚可出了不少力呢。”

莫格利转过身，看见了大蟒的脑袋。

“看来这位就是人类的孩子了，”卡阿说道，“他和班达洛有些像，但又不一样。你要小心啊，孩子，等会儿我捕杀猴子时不要误伤了你。”

“你和我血脉相通，”莫格利回答道，“今晚你救了我，所以以后你要是饿的话，我捕获的东西就归你。”

“说得好。”巴鲁说道。

“你很勇敢，年轻人，”卡阿说道，“而且你说得不错。现在和你的朋友一起走吧。月亮马上就要落山了，不能让你看见接下来的事情。”

卡阿轻轻地滑到端坐成排的猴子面前，开始从容不迫地跳起舞来。他的脑袋左右摇晃，长长的身躯也随之摇摆，在他们眼前转着圈，每秒钟都姿态各异。

巴鲁和巴格拉呆在那里动弹不得，莫格利则不解地看着这一切。

“班达洛，”终于，卡阿用低沉的声音问道，“你们能动吗？”

“您不发话，卡阿，我们无法动弹。”

“靠我近一些。”卡阿说。

一排排的猴子走近卡阿，巴鲁和巴格拉也向前走了几步。

“再近点。”卡阿发出一阵嘶嘶声。他们又一起向前移动了几步。

莫格利把他的手放到巴鲁和巴格拉的身上，想把他们拉开。他们两个顿时清醒过来。

“把手放在我身上，莫格利，”巴格拉轻声说道，“否则我就会走回卡阿身边，一直走进他的嘴里。”

“老卡阿不过是跳跳舞而已，”莫格利说，“我们走吧。”说着他们三个便转身走进了森林。

“看蟒蛇跳舞是件危险的事儿，”巴鲁说道，“即便对我们来说也是这样。卡阿今晚可以饱餐一顿了。”

“好了，莫格利，”巴格拉生气地说，“巴鲁和我为了救你拼命战斗。猴子们则对我们又咬又扯又打。这一切都是因为你——这个人类的孩子——和班达洛一起玩耍。”

“的确如此，”莫格利伤心地说道，“我是个坏孩子。”

“根据‘森林法则’。我们必须对你进行惩罚。”巴格拉说道。看到莫格利平安归来，巴鲁就已经很高兴了，但他也不能违反“森林法则”。

“我应该受罚，”莫格利说，“我做错了。”

巴格拉打了他一下。对于一只黑豹来说这一下算是很轻的，可对于一个小孩子来说这一下很重。莫格利没有哭。

“好了，”巴格拉说，“跳到我的背上来，小兄弟，我们回家了。”

“森林法则”的好处之一就是，一旦你受到了惩罚，事情就算完结了。





4The fight at the rock


The fight at the rock

Mowgli always went to the meetings of the Wolf-Pack, and there he learnt something new one day. If he looked hard at any wolf, the wolf could not meet his eyes and looked away. Mowgli thought this was funny; he did not understand that he was different from the wolves.

All the Jungle-People were his friends — but not Shere Khan, of course. Mother Wolf told him that the tiger wanted to kill him. 'One day you must kill Shere Khan. If you don't kill him, he will kill you.' But Mowgli forgot. He was only a boy, not a wolf.

Shere Khan still came often to that part of the jungle. Akela was older now and not so strong, and Shere Khan made friends with some of the younger wolves. Akela could not stop them, and Shere Khan began to make trouble for Mowgli. 'I hear you can't look into the man-cub's eyes,' he said, laughing, to the young wolves. And the young wolves began to get angry.

Bagheera, who had eyes and ears everywhere, knew something of this and told Mowgli. Mowgli laughed, but Bagheera went on, 'Open your eyes, Little Brother. Remember that Akela is old and he will not always be the leader of the Pack. Shere Khan has taught the younger wolves that a man-cub has no place with them. And soon you will be a man, not a man-cub.'

'But the wolves are my brothers. Why will they want to send me away?'

'Look at me,' said Bagheera, and Mowgli looked at him hard between the eyes. The big black cat turned his head away quickly. 'That is why,' he said. 'Not even I can look in your eyes. That is why they want to kill you. You are clever. You are a man.'

'I did not know these things,' said Mowgli quietly.

'Now listen. The day will soon come when Akela cannot kill his deer in the hunt. Then at the next meeting of the Pack the younger wolves will be against Akela and against you. When that time comes, go to the men's houses in the village and take some of their Red Flower. That will be a stronger friend to you than I or Baloo.'

The Red Flower was fire. All animals are afraid of it and do not call it by its name. 'I will get some,' said Mowgli. 'I will go and get it now, and keep it ready,' and he ran through the jungle to the village.

On his way he heard the sounds of the Wolf-Pack hunting a big deer. 'Show us that you are strong, Akela,' came the voices of the young wolves. 'Kill it!'

Mowgli stopped and listened, and he could hear that Akela did not kill the deer. 'So the time has come already,' he thought, and hurried to the village. He watched and waited, and soon he saw a child who was carrying a fire-pot. Mowgli jumped up, took the pot from him, and quickly ran away, back to the jungle. All that day he kept his fire alive with leaves and pieces of wood.

In the evening Tabaqui came and told him that the wolves wanted him at the meeting. Mowgli laughed, and went. When he arrived, he saw that Akela was not in his special place, on top of the rock, but beside it. That meant that another wolf could try to take Akela's place. Shere Khan was there, too, with all the younger wolves around him. Mowgli sat down, with the fire-pot between his legs. Bagheera lay beside him.

Shere Khan began to speak and Mowgli jumped up.

'Free People, is Shere Khan your leader? Does a tiger belong in the Wolf-Pack?'

'There is no wolf on the rock,' began Shere Khan, but the other wolves said, 'Let Akela speak.'

Akela looked up, old and tired. 'Free People, I have been your leader for many years. In all that time no wolf has died in the hunt. But this time I did not kill my deer. The Law of the Jungle says that you can kill me now, but the Law also says that you must come one by one.'

No one spoke. Akela was old, but nobody wanted to fight Akela alone.

Then Shere Khan spoke. 'Bah! This old wolf is not important. He will die soon. It is the man-cub who has lived too long. Give him to me.'

'A man! A man!' cried most of the younger wolves angrily. 'A man does not belong in the Wolf-Pack.'

'Mowgli is our brother,' said Akela. 'He has eaten our food. He has slept with us. He has done nothing wrong. Let him go to his own place.'

'He is a man,' cried Shere Khan and most of the wolves.

Mowgli stood up, the fire-pot in his hands. He was very angry, and very sad.

'You have said many times that I am a man. I was your brother, but I will not call you my brothers again. I will decide on my life or my death, not you . I am a man, and to show you, I have brought the Red Flower with me.'

He dropped the fire-pot on the ground and some of the fire fell out. The wolves were very afraid and moved back. Mowgli held a long piece of wood in the fire and the end began to burn brightly.

'You are the leader now,' said Bagheera softly. 'Help Akela. He was always your friend.'

'Good,' said Mowgli. He looked at the frightened wolves. 'I go from you to my people — the world of men. But first...' and Mowgli went to Shere Khan. 'This killer of cows wanted to kill me. This is what men do to killers of cows,' and he hit Shere Khan on the head with the burning stick. The tiger was very frightened.

'Go now,' said Mowgli to Shere Khan. 'The next time I come to this rock, it will be with your dead body. I tell you this also, my brothers, you will not kill Akela — because I do not want that. Akela is free to live.'

And Mowgli jumped at the young wolves with his burning stick and they all ran away. In the end there were only Akela, Bagheera, and a few older wolves left. Then something began to hurt Mowgli inside him and, for the first time in his life, tears ran down his face.

'What is it? What is it? Am I dying, Bagheera?'

'No, Little Brother. You are a man, and these are men's tears. But you must go — the jungle is closed to you now.'

'Yes,' said Mowgli. 'I will go to men. But first I must say goodbye to my mother.' And he went to the cave and cried on Mother Wolf's coat.

'You will not forget me?' Mowgli said to his wolf-family.

'Never,' said his wolf-brothers. 'Come to the foot of the hill when you are a man, and we will talk with you.'

'Come soon, little frog,' said Father Wolf, 'because your Mother and I are getting old.'

'I will surely come,' said Mowgli, 'and I will bring the coat of Shere Khan and put it on the Meeting Rock.'

And in the morning Mowgli went down the hill alone to meet those strange things that are called men.

deer n. a large grasseating wild animal that can run very fast and has wide branching horns 鹿

fire-pot n. a container for fire 火罐

belong v. to be in the right place or situation 应被放置在；应处在

one by one if people do something one by one, first one person does it, then the next, then the next etc. 一个一个地；依次地

bah int. to show disapproval of something 呸！（表示不赞同）

drop v. to stop holding or carrying something so that it falls 让（某物）落下

brightly adv. shining strongly or with plenty of light 光亮地；发光地

frightened adj. feeling afraid 受惊的；害怕的

coat n. the fur, wool, or hair that covers an animal's body （动物的）皮毛





4 ．岩石上的战斗


莫格利每次都去参加狼族的聚会。有一天，他在那儿发现了一件新鲜事。如果他使劲盯着某只狼看，那只狼就会不敢正视自己，转而把目光移开。莫格利觉得这很有趣，他并不明白自己和狼群是不同的。

所有的森林居民都是他的朋友，当然不包括希尔汗。狼妈妈曾告诉他这只老虎想要杀死他。“将来你必须杀了希尔汗。如果你不杀掉他，他就会杀死你。”但是莫格利已经忘记母狼的话了。他毕竟只是个小孩子，而不是狼。

希尔汗还是经常来那片森林转转。现在的阿克拉已经老了许多，也不如以往强壮了。希尔汗和一些年轻的狼交上了朋友。阿克拉没法阻止他们，于是希尔汗便开始给莫格利制造麻烦。“我听说你们无法和那个人崽儿对视。”他边笑边对着年轻的狼群说。这些年轻的狼被激怒了。

巴格拉到处都有自己的耳目。当他听说了这件事后，便告诉了莫格利。莫格利笑了，巴格拉却继续说道：“放警惕些，小兄弟。你要记住，阿克拉老了，他不会永远领导狼族。希尔汗告诉年轻的狼们说人类的孩子在狼群中是没有地位的。而且很快你就会长成一个大人，而不再是个孩子了。”

“可是狼都是我的兄弟啊。为什么他们想要把我送走呢？”

“看着我。”巴格拉说道，于是莫格利紧紧盯住了他的双眼，这只黑色的大豹子很快将自己的脑袋转向一旁。“这就是原因，”他说，“连我 都无法直视你的眼睛。这就是为什么他们想要杀死你。你很聪明，因为你是一个人。”

“我以前都不知道这些事情。”莫格利轻声说道。

“那么听着，一旦阿克拉连鹿也无法杀死，这一天很快就会来到。到那个时候，年轻的狼们就会在狼族的下一次聚会中反对阿克拉，还有你。到了那时，你就到人类居住的村子里去，然后从那里拿一些红花来。对你来说，那将是比我或是巴鲁都要强大的朋友。”

所谓的红花就是火。所有的动物都怕火，所以不愿意直呼其名。“我会的，”莫格利说道，“我现在就去拿一些来，做好准备。”说着，他穿过森林，朝村子奔去。

途中他听到狼族正在围攻一头巨大的鹿。“让我们看看你有多强壮，阿克拉，”年轻的狼群喊道，“杀掉它！”

莫格利停下脚步，侧耳倾听，他能听出来阿克拉并没有杀死那头鹿。“看来时候已到。”他一边想，一边匆匆赶到村子里。经过一番观察和等待，他很快便看到一个孩子手中拿着一个火罐。莫格利跳了起来，从他的手中夺过火罐，转身向森林的方向飞奔而去。那天，他用树叶和碎木头让火保持不灭。

到了晚上，塔巴奎来了，告诉他狼群希望他参加聚会。莫格利大笑了一阵，向那儿走去。刚到聚会的地方，他就看到阿克拉没有坐在岩石顶上那个属于他的特别位置上，而是站在一旁。这意味着别的狼能够试着取代阿克拉了。希尔汗也在那里，年轻的狼们围在他的身旁。莫格利坐了下来，火罐就在他的双腿之间。巴格拉卧在他的身旁。

希尔汗开始说话，莫格利跳了起来。

“自由的人们，希尔汗是你们的领袖吗？一只老虎应该在狼族里吗？”

“现在岩石上没有狼。”希尔汗开口道，但是其他狼则说道：“让阿克拉讲话。”

阿克拉抬起头，显得苍老而疲惫。“自由的人们，我领导你们有好多年了。这些年中，没有一只狼在捕猎中死掉。但是这次我没有杀死本该由我杀死的鹿。根据‘森林法则’，你们现在可以杀死我了，但是你们得一个一个来，这也是法则规定的。”

没有人说话。阿克拉虽然老了，可还是没有人愿意和他单打独斗。

正在这时，希尔汗说话了。“呸！这只老狼无关紧要。他很快就要上西天了。倒是那个人类的小崽子，他活得太久了。把他给我。”

“人！人！”大部分年轻的狼生气地叫道，“人不属于狼族。”

“莫格利是我们的兄弟，”阿克拉说道，“他和我们同吃同住。他没有做什么错事。让他有自己的一席之地吧。”

“他是一个人。”希尔汗和大部分狼叫嚣着。

莫格利站了起来，手里拿着火罐。他怒火中烧而又满腹委屈。

“你们总说我是一个人。我曾是你们的兄弟，可是现在我将不再把你们当作兄弟。我 将决定自己的生死，而不是由你们 决定。我是人，为了证明这一点，我带来了红花。”

他将火罐摔在地上，一些火苗溅了出来。狼群非常害怕，往后退去。莫格利将一块长长的木头伸进火里，木头的一端顿时燃烧起来，发出明亮的光芒。

“现在你是领袖了，”巴格拉温和地说道，“帮帮阿克拉。他永远是你的朋友。”

“好的。”莫格利说道。他看着被吓呆了的狼群：“我将离开你们，回到我的同类那里，回到人类的世界。但是首先……”莫格利一边说，一边走向希尔汗，“这个只能杀牛的家伙想要杀死我。我要让你们看看人类是怎么对付杀牛贼的。”说着，他用正在燃烧的木棒朝希尔汗的脑袋上打去。老虎害怕极了。

“滚，”莫格利对希尔汗说道，“等下次我再到岩石这儿，我就会带着你的尸体一块儿来。还有你们，我的兄弟们，你们不能 杀死阿克拉——因为我 不希望这样。阿克拉可以自由地活下去。”

莫格利拿着正在燃烧的木棒冲进年轻的狼群，他们都四下逃散。最后只剩下阿克拉、巴格拉以及一些年长的狼。莫格利感到心里一阵剧痛，眼泪从脸上滑落下来，这还是他生平第一次落泪。

“这是什么东西？这是什么东西？我要死了吗，巴格拉？”

“不是的，小兄弟。你是一个人，这些是人类的眼泪。但是你必须走了——森林现在已经不属于你了。”

“我知道，”莫格利说道，“我将到人类那里去。但是我得先和我的妈妈道别。”他来到洞穴里，趴在狼妈妈的身上放声大哭。

“你们不会忘记我吧？”莫格利对他的狼家庭说道。

“永远不会，”他的那些狼兄弟们说，“等你成人后，你就来到山脚下，我们会和你说话。”

“尽早回来，小青蛙，”狼爸爸说道，“你妈妈和我已经老了。”

“我一定会回来，”莫格利说道，“我还要带来希尔汗的皮，然后把它放在聚会石上。”

第二天清晨，莫格利便独自一人下山，去见那些被称作人类的奇怪东西。





5Tiger-Tiger


Tiger-Tiger

Mowgli knew that he had enemies now and he went far away. He ran until he came to a village in a place with many rocks and narrow valleys. Everywhere Mowgli could see cows and buffaloes. Some little boys were looking after the cows, but when they saw Mowgli, they shouted and ran away. Mowgli walked on until he came to the village.

He sat down by the gate. When a man came out of the village, Mowgli opened his mouth to show that he wanted food. The man ran back into the village and came back with a hundred other people. They all looked at Mowgli and saw the bite-marks on his arms and legs.

'Look,' said a man, 'those are the bite-marks of wolves. He is a wolf-child who has run away from the jungle.'

'He is a good-looking boy,' said one of the women. 'Messua, he looks like your little boy that was taken by the tiger.'

'Let me look,' said Messua. 'Yes, he is thin, but he looks like my son.'

'Take him to your house, Messua,' the villagers said. 'The jungle took your boy, and the jungle has given you this one back.'

The woman called Messua took Mowgli to her house and gave him milk and bread. This was Mowgli's first time in a house, and he did not like it. It felt like a prison.

'But I am a man now,' he thought, 'and I must do what men do. I must also learn to speak like men.' He knew all the many languages of the jungle, and so it was easy for him to learn the sounds of men. That first evening he learnt many words from Messua.

But that night he did not want to sleep inside the house. So he climbed out of the window, and went to sleep in a field near the village. Before he went to sleep, a soft grey nose touched his face. It was Grey Brother, the eldest of Mother Wolf's cubs.

'Wake, Little Brother,' he said. 'I bring news. Shere Khan has gone away. You burnt his coat with the Red Flower. But he says that, when he comes back, he will kill you.'

'I remember also what I said about Shere Khan,' said Mowgli. 'But it is good to have news. Will you always bring me news, Grey Brother?'

'Yes, Little Brother. But you will not forget that you are a wolf? You will not forget us when you are with men?'

'Never,' replied Mowgli. 'I will always remember that I love you all.'

*　　*　　*

For three months Mowgli learnt how to be like a man. He had to wear clothes, learn how to use money, and how to work in the fields. In the evenings he sat with the villagers under a great tree, while the men told stories about the jungle and the animals. Once, when Buldeo, the village hunter, told a story about a tiger, Mowgli had to hide his face because he was laughing. At the end he said, 'Buldeo's stories are stupid. He knows nothing about the jungle.'

The villagers did not like this, and after that they sent Mowgli out every day with the other boys, to look after the herds of cows and buffaloes while they ate. Mowgli enjoyed this work, and usually went on alone, with a big group of cows and buffaloes.

One day he saw Grey Brother under a tree near the jungle. 'Shere Khan has come back, but he is hiding for a while. Then he is coming to kill you,' said Grey Brother.

'Very good,' said Mowgli. 'Tell me when he comes. Meet me at the river, by the big dhak -tree with golden flowers. I will watch for you there every day.'

Day after day Mowgli went out with the herds, but there was nobody at the dhak -tree. Then at last the day came when Grey Brother was waiting for him.

'Shere Khan has waited for a month, and is hoping that you have now forgotten about him,' said the wolf. 'He's going to wait for you at the village gate this evening. But now he is hiding in the big dry ravine of the Waingunga. I met Tabaqui this morning —' here Grey Brother showed his teeth a little '— and before I broke his back, he told me all about Shere Khan's plan.'

'Has Shere Khan eaten today, or does he hunt empty?' The answer was life or death for Mowgli.

'He killed and ate this morning. And he has drunk, too.'

'How stupid he is!' said Mowgli. 'Does he think that I shall wait until he has slept?' He stood and thought for a while. 'The ravine of Waingunga! I can take the buffaloes round to the top end and chase Shere Khan down the ravine. After a meal, he cannot fight or climb easily. But I need a big group of cows at the bottom end of the ravine, to stop him escaping. Then we will catch him between the buffaloes and the cows. Can you help me, Grey Brother?'

'Not I alone,' said Grey Brother, 'but I have someone who will help me.' And the big grey head of Akela came out from the trees.

'Akela! Akela!' said Mowgli. 'I knew you would not forget me.' The two wolves ran here and there among the herd, and soon the cows and buffaloes were in two groups. Already, they were getting excited and dangerous. The other herd-boys, who were watching a long way away, ran back to the village with the news.

'Keep the cows together, Grey Brother,' called Mowgli. 'Drive them into the bottom end of the ravine and keep them there until we come down. Akela, you and I will take the buffaloes round to the top.'

They drove the buffaloes round in a big circle uphill. It took a long time because they did not want Shere Khan to hear them. At last Mowgli was ready. He stopped and shouted down the ravine.

'Shere Khan! It is I, Mowgli. It is time for our meeting!'

Mowgli rode on the back of Rama, the biggest of the buffaloes, and Akela chased the herd from behind. The buffaloes began to run down the ravine, faster and faster, and the ground shook under their heavy feet.

Shere Khan heard the noise and woke up. He knew what it was, and he began to run down the ravine. No tiger can hope to stand against a herd of buffaloes when they are moving fast. He looked for a way to escape, but the ravine was narrow, with high rocky walls. He had to go on, heavy with his dinner and his drink. Then he saw the cows at the bottom of the ravine, and turned. But it was too late. He fell under the feet of the buffaloes, and they ran over him like a river running down a mountain.

The buffaloes did not stop until they crashed into the herd of cows. Mowgli jumped off Rama's back and shouted to Akela and Grey Brother.

'It is done! Shere Khan is dead! He died the death of a dog, not a fighting tiger.'

Mowgli took his knife and started to cut the coat from Shere Khan's body. It was hard work. After an hour Mowgli was still working when suddenly he felt a hand on his back. It was Buldeo, the village hunter.

'Go and look after your buffaloes,' he cried angrily. 'I will take this tiger's coat. I can sell it for a hundred rupees, and you can have one rupee for yourself.'

'No,' said Mowgli. 'I need this coat.'

'Listen, boy!' shouted Buldeo. 'I am the village hunter, and I will take the coat, and keep all the money.'

Then Mowgli spoke to Akela in the wolf-language, and suddenly Buldeo was lying on his back on the ground with a big grey wolf standing over him.

'Buldeo,' said Mowgli, 'for a long time this tiger has wanted to kill me. But I have killed him.'

Buldeo was very afraid. Who was this boy, who could talk to wolves and kill tigers? 'Great King,' he said to Mowgli, 'I am an old man. I thought you were just a herd-boy. Let me go now, and I will go away.'

'Go, and peace go with you,' replied Mowgli, and he went on with his work.

It was nearly dark when at last he and the wolves pulled the great coat away from the tiger's body.

'Now we must hide this and take the cows and the buffaloes back to the village,' said Mowgli.

But when Mowgli came near the village, there was a crowd of people waiting for him at the gate. 'Go away, wolf-child!' they shouted. 'Go away, or we will kill you!'

Mowgli did not understand. Shere Khan — the tiger who killed cows and stole children — was dead, but people were angry with him. He turned away and looked up at the stars in the sky. 'No more sleeping in houses for me, Akela. Let us get Shere Khan's coat and go away.'

The moon climbed high in the sky, and the frightened villagers watched while Mowgli began to run across the fields, with the two grey wolves running at his side.

*　　*　　*

The moon was going down when Mowgli and the two wolves came to Mother Wolf's cave. 'The men do not want me, Mother,' called Mowgli. 'I have come home, and I have brought the coat of Shere Khan.'

Mother Wolf came out of the cave, very happy to see Mowgli again, and to know that Shere Khan was dead.

From the jungle came the deep voice of Bagheera. 'Little Brother, we are pleased to see you.'

Then Mowgli took the coat of Shere Khan and put it on the great rock at the wolves' meeting place. Akela lay on it and called, 'Look well, O Wolves!' And the Wolf-Pack came and looked, and saw that Shere Khan was dead.

'Now,' said Mowgli, 'I do not belong to the Wolf-Pack, or to the Man-Pack. I will hunt alone in the jungle.'

'And we will hunt with you,' said Grey Brother and the rest of Mother Wolf's cubs.

And Mowgli went away into the jungle and lived and hunted with his brothers, the wolves.

valley n. an area of land between two lines of hills or mountains, usually with a river flowing through it 谷；山谷

buffalo n. an African animal similar to a large cow with long curved horns 水牛

good-looking adj. having an attractive appearance 标致的；漂亮的

prison n. a large building where people are kept as a punishment for a crime 监狱

soft adj. not hard or firm, but easy to press （柔）软的

touch v. to put your hand or another part of your body on something or someone so that you can feel them （手或身体其他部位）触到；摸到

herd n. a group of animals of one kind that lives and feeds together （同一种类并一同栖息的）兽群

ravine n. a deep narrow valley with steep sides 深谷；峡谷

chase v. to quickly follow someone or something in order to catch them 追逐；追赶

escape v. to get away from a place when someone is trying to catch you or stop you leaving 逃走；逃离（某地）

herd-boy n. a boy who looks after a herd of animals 牧童

rupee n. the standard unit of money in India, Pakistan, and other countries 卢比（印度、巴基斯坦等国家的标准货币单位）

pleased adj. happy or satisfied 快乐的；高兴的





5 ．最后的决斗


莫格利知道自己现在有了很多敌人，于是他决定远走他乡。他跑到一个村子前，这里遍布岩石和狭窄的山谷。放眼望去，到处是奶牛和水牛。一些小男孩正在放牛，但是当看到莫格利时，他们全都惊叫着跑开了。莫格利接着往前走到了村边。

他在村口坐了下来。正在这时，有个人从村子里走了出来，莫格利张开嘴巴表示他想要些吃的。那个人转身跑回到村子里，带着上百个人返回莫格利的身边。他们看着莫格利，发现他的胳膊和腿上有一些咬痕。

“看，”一个人说道，“那些伤痕是被狼咬的。他是一个从森林里跑出来的狼孩。”

“他长得挺漂亮，”一个女人说道，“梅苏阿，他看上去像你那个被老虎抢走的小男孩。”

“让我看看，”梅苏阿说道，“是啊，他虽然瘦，但是看上去挺像我儿子的。”

“把他带回你家吧，梅苏阿，”村民们说道，“森林带走了你的儿子，却又把这个孩子还给了你。”

那个叫梅苏阿的女人把莫格利带回了家，给了他一些牛奶和面包。莫格利是第一次待在屋子里，他不喜欢屋子，觉得像个监狱。

“可是我现在是人，”他想道，“人们做什么，我就必须做什么。我还必须学着像人一样说话。”他懂得森林里的所有语言，所以学会人类的发音对他来说一点儿也不难。第一晚，他就从梅苏阿那里学到了不少词语。

但是那天晚上他不愿意睡在屋里。于是他从窗户爬了出去，睡在村子附近的田野里。就在他刚要睡着的时候，一只柔软的灰色鼻子碰了碰他的脸。那是格雷哥哥的鼻子，他是狼妈妈最大的孩子。

“快醒醒，小兄弟，”他说道，“我给你带来了一些消息。希尔汗走了。你用红花烧坏了他的皮毛。但他说等他回来就会杀了你。”

“我也记得我说的那些有关希尔汗的话，”莫格利说道，“不管怎样，能听到一些消息总归不错。你会经常给我带些消息吗，格雷哥哥？”

“当然，我的小兄弟。但是你不会忘了自己是只狼吧？你和人在一起的时候，不会忘了我们吧？”

“永远不会，”莫格利回答道，“我爱你们，我一辈子都不会忘记。”

*　　*　　*

三个月里，莫格利一直在学习怎么做一个人。他不得不穿上衣服，学着使用钱币，以及如何干农活。到了晚上，他就和村民们一起坐在一棵大树下，听人们讲述有关森林和各种动物的故事。有一次，村里的猎手布尔迪欧讲了一个老虎的故事。莫格利不得不把自己的脸挡起来，因为他一直在笑。最后他说：“布尔迪欧在胡说，他对森林一点儿都不了解。”

听到这话，村民们很不高兴。从那以后，他们打发莫格利每天和其他男孩们一起，到村外去照顾奶牛和水牛吃草。莫格利倒是对这份工作自得其乐，经常独自一人赶着一大群牛。

有一天，他看见格雷哥哥站在森林附近的一棵树下。“希尔汗回来了，不过他现在躲了一阵子了。不久他就会来杀你。”格雷哥哥说道。

“很好，”莫格利说道，“他来的时候你告诉我一声，我们在河边那棵开满金黄花的达卡树下见面。我会每天都去看一下你。”

日子一天天过去了，莫格利每天赶着牛群出去，但是达卡树下始终空空如也。最后，格雷哥哥终于来到了树下。

“希尔汗等了一个月，认为你现在应该已经忘记他了，”格雷说道，“今晚他会在村口那里等着你。不过现在他就藏在瓦英乌加的一个已经干涸的峡谷里。今天早上我碰到了塔巴奎——”说到这里，格雷哥哥微微呲了呲牙齿，“——在我咬断他的脊梁之前，他告诉了我希尔汗的计划。”

“希尔汗今天吃过东西了吗？他是空腹上阵吗？”答案事关莫格利的生死。

“他早上抓到了一些东西，所以已经吃过了。他还喝了很多水。”

“这个蠢家伙！”莫格利说道，“他以为我会等到他睡够了才会行动吗？”他站在那里，想了一会儿，“瓦英乌加的峡谷！我可以赶着水牛群绕到山顶，然后把希尔汗赶到峡谷里。饱餐之后，他肯定无力战斗，也无力爬山。不过我还需要一大群奶牛守在谷底，好让他无法脱身。这样一来，我们就能用水牛和奶牛把他夹在中间。你愿意帮助我吗，格雷哥哥？”

“就我一个可不行，”格雷哥哥说道，“但是有人可以帮我。”正说着，阿克拉那颗巨大的灰色脑袋从树林里探了出来。

“阿克拉！阿克拉！”莫格利说道，“我就知道你不会忘记我的。”两只狼在牛群中来回奔跑，很快奶牛和水牛就被分成了两群。牛群已经变得异常兴奋、一触即发了。其他的牧童远远地看到这一切，全都跑回村子里报告消息去了。

“别让奶牛跑了，格雷哥哥，”莫格利叫道，“把它们赶到峡谷的底部，让它们一直待在那里，直到我们下来。阿克拉，你和我一道把水牛赶到山顶。”

他们赶着水牛群，绕了一个大圈，爬到山顶。这花了很长时间，因为他们不想让希尔汗听到动静。终于，莫格利准备就绪。他停下来朝峡谷里大声喊起来。

“希尔汗！是我，莫格利！该是我们见面的时候了！”

莫格利骑在拉玛的背上——拉玛是牛群中最大的那头水牛。阿克拉则从后面驱赶着牛群。水牛开始向谷底冲去，越跑越快，沉重的脚步震得地面直抖。

希尔汗听到响声，醒了过来。弄明白是怎么一回事后，他开始朝着谷底跑去。水牛群一旦开始狂奔，任何老虎都休想抵挡得住。他想找条路逃走，但是峡谷很窄，而且两边都是高高的岩石。他不得不继续往前跑，肚子里的食物和水让他的脚步沉重。就在这时，他看到山谷里到处是奶牛。他想调转方向，可是已经太迟了。他倒在了一双双牛蹄下，牛群就像河水从山上冲下一样从他身上踏过。

直到水牛冲进奶牛群后，它们才停了下来。莫格利从拉玛的背上跳下来，对着阿克拉和格雷哥哥喊叫着。

“成功了！希尔汗死了！他死的时候就像是一条狗，而不是一头好战的老虎。”

莫格利拿出刀，开始剥希尔汗的皮。这项工作很费事。一个小时过去了，他还在忙着剥皮。正在这时，他突然感到有一只手搭在了自己的背上，原来是村里的猎手布尔迪欧。

“快去放牛，”他生气地叫嚷着，“这块虎皮归我 了，这虎皮能卖到上百卢比，我可以给你一个卢比。”

“不，”莫格利说，“我需要这块虎皮。”

“听着，小子！”布尔迪欧叫道，“我 是这村里的猎手，这块虎皮归我，卖的钱也全都归我。”

莫格利用狼的语言和阿克拉说了几句话，布尔迪欧便突然倒在地上，被一只巨大的灰狼踩在了脚下。

“布尔迪欧，”莫格利说，“这只老虎一直想杀死我。不过最终我杀死了他。”

布尔迪欧感到非常害怕。这个男孩究竟是谁？他为什么能够和狼对话，还能够杀死老虎呢？“伟大的王啊，”他对莫格利说道，“我是个老头了。我以为你不过是个牧童。放我走吧，我马上就滚。”

“走吧，愿你平安。”莫格利回答道，说着他便继续手头的活儿。

天快黑的时候，他和两只狼终于把巨大的虎皮从希尔汗的身上剥了下来。

“现在我们必须把这个先藏起来，然后把牛群赶回村子去。”莫格利说。

但是快要到村子的时候，莫格利发现村口有一群人正在等着他。“快滚，你这个狼孩！”他们叫道，“快滚，否则我们就杀了你！”

莫格利有些糊涂了。杀牛偷孩子的老虎希尔汗死了，可是人们却怒火中烧。他转过身去，仰望着星空。“我不会再回到屋子里睡觉了，阿克拉。我们带上希尔汗的皮离开这里吧。”

月亮高高地挂在天空，惊恐的人们看着莫格利跑过田野，旁边跟着两只灰狼。

*　　*　　*

等到莫格利和两只狼来到狼妈妈的洞穴时，月亮已经下山了。“人们不欢迎我，妈妈，”莫格利说道，“我回来了，还带来了希尔汗的虎皮。”

狼妈妈走出洞穴，看到莫格利回来了，又看到希尔汗已经死了，感到非常高兴。

森林里传来巴格拉低沉的声音：“小兄弟，看见你真高兴。”

莫格利把希尔汗的虎皮放在狼群聚会处的大石头上。阿克拉卧在上面说：“大家看仔细！”狼族走上前来，看到希尔汗已经一命呜呼了。

“现在，”莫格利说道，“我既不属于狼族，也不属于人类。我将独自一人在森林打猎。”

“我们会和你一起打猎。”格雷哥哥和狼妈妈的其他孩子一块儿说道。

于是，莫格利和他的狼兄弟走进森林。从此以后他们便一起生活，一起打猎。





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1．What do you know about jungles? Choose the best answers to these questions.

1) What is the weather like in a jungle?

a It rains a lot.

b It never rains.

c It snows in winter.

d It is very cold.

e It is very hot.

f It is warm, but not hot.

2) Which of these countries have jungles?

a Italy

b Brazil

c Canada

d Spain

e India

f Japan

2．Which of these things do you find in jungles? Underline the most usual things.

beaches

elephants

rivers

birds

flowers

sheep

buses

fruit

shops

chickens

gardens

snakes

cinemas

hills

tigers

cows

monkeys

trees

3．Read the story introduction on the first page of the book, and the back cover. How much do you know now about the story?

Tick one of the boxes for each sentence.

1) The jungle is in Southern India.

YES □／NO □

2) Mowgli is a wolf-cub.

YES □／NO □

3) Mother Wolf wants to keep the baby.

YES □／NO □

4) The baby is afraid of Mother Wolf.

YES □／NO □

5) Mowgli dies while he is still a baby.

YES □／NO □

6) A bear and a panther are his teachers.

YES □／NO □

7) Shere Khan the tiger is Mowgli's friend.

YES □／NO □

8) Mowgli grows up with his wolf family.

YES □／NO □

4．What will happen in this story? Can you guess? Tick one of the boxes for each sentence.

1) When Mowgli grows up, some of the wolves want to kill him.

YES □／NO □

2) Mowgli leaves the jungle and goes to live in a village.

YES □／NO □

3) He goes to school and learns to read and write.

YES □／NO □

4) Shere Khan the tiger goes away and forgets about Mowgli.

YES □／NO □

5) Mowgli kills Shere Khan.

YES □／NO □

6) Shere Khan kills Mowgli.

YES □／NO □





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1．Read Chapter 1. Who said these words in the chapter?

1) 'The man's cub belongs to us.'

2) 'I will have this man-cub one day, you thieves!'

3) 'I will call him Mowgli, the frog.'

4) 'Let him run with the Pack. I myself will teach him.'

5) 'It is bad to kill a man-cub.'

6) 'Take him away, and teach him well.'

2．Read Chapter 2. Here are some untrue sentences about it. Change them into true sentences.

1) Mowgli always loved his lessons with Baloo.

2) The Monkey-People were quiet and clean.

3) The monkeys carried Mowgli away to a cave.

4) Baloo and Bagheera asked Chil the kite for help.

5) Bagheera called Kaa the python an 'old yellow fish'.

6) Mowgli wanted to stay with the Monkey-People.

3．Read Chapter 3. Choose the best question-word for these questions, and then answer them.

Who/What/Where/Why

1) ... attacked the monkeys first?

2) ... did Kaa the python go?

3) ... did Mowgli hear in the dark room?

4) ... did Mowgli tell Bagheera to get into the water?

5) ... made a hole in the wall?

6) ... did Kaa do in front of the monkeys?

7) ... was Bagheera angry with Mowgli?

4．Read Chapter 4, and then complete these sentences with the best word.

1) The animals could not look into Mowgli's ______.

2) One day Akela could not kill his ______ in the hunt.

3) The wolves said that a man did not ______ in the Wolf-Pack.

4) Mowgli hit Shere Khan with a ______ stick.

5) Mowgli knew he had to go to the world of ______.

5．Before you read Chapter 5, can you guess what will happen? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Mowgli forgets all about his wolf-family.

YES □／NO □

2) He learns the language of men.

YES □／NO □

3) He makes friends with other boys.

YES □／NO □

4) He stays in the village for the rest of his life.

YES □／NO □

5) Shere Khan makes a plan to kill Mowgli.

YES □／NO □

6) The people of the village help Mowgli to kill Shere Khan.

YES □／NO □





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


1．Match the names with the animals in this story.

Tabaqui

monkeys

Shere Khan

the leader of the Wolf-Pack

Baloo

a python

Bagheera

a kite

Akela

a jackal

Bandar-log

a wolf



Chil

a tiger





Kaa

a bear





Grey Brother

a panther

2．Who do these sentences describe? Fill in the names.

1) ______ teaches the Law of the Jungle to the wolf-cubs.

2) ______ is brown and yellow, and ten metres long. His dance is dangerous to watch.

3) ______ are noisy and dirty. They make many plans and forget them five minutes later.

4) ______ has green eyes and is as black as the night. He is clever, strong, and dangerous.

5) ______ kills cows and steals children. He is afraid of fire.

6) ______ eats anything, and makes a lot of trouble.

3．How did Mowgli kill Shere Khan the tiger? Put these parts of sentences in the right order to make a paragraph of four sentences.

1) They put the cows and the buffaloes into two groups

2) he made a plan

3) while Mowgli and Akela took the buffaloes to the top of the ravine.

4) One day Grey Brother came to tell Mowgli that

5) and Grey Brother drove the cows into the bottom end of the ravine.

6) Shere Khan was hiding in the ravine of the Waingunga.

7) and asked Grey Brother and Akela to help him.

8) He kept the cows there

9) When Mowgli heard this,

4．Now finish the story of the death of Shere Khan. Use the words below to complete the passage.

because /so / so / when / and / and / but

______ the buffaloes began to run down the ravine, Shere Khan heard the noise ______ woke up. He too began to run ______ he could not run fast ______ he was heavy with his dinner and his drink. The ravine was high and narrow ______ he could not climb out of it, ______ he could not get past the cows at the bottom. There was no way for him to escape, ______ he died under the feet of the buffaloes.

5．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter ______.

1) Who are the characters in the picture?

2) What did the man want to do?

3) Why is he frightened?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption : _______________________.

6．In each of these groups of words from the story, one word does not belong. Which word is it, and can you explain why?

1) run, climb, swim, jump, think

2) cow, deer, kite, buffalo, jackal

3) sun, cloud, moon, cave, star

4) bite, hiss, whisper, roar, shout

5) hill, ravine, mountain, valley, garden

6) brother, hunter, father, sister, mother

7) angry, frightened, tired, tall, hungry

7．Many people have written stories about animals who can talk. Look at these ideas. Do you agree (A) or disagree (D) with them?

1) Animals can't talk.

2) Perhaps animals can talk, but humans don't understand their language.

3) Perhaps wolves can talk to wolves and monkeys to monkeys, but wolves can't talk to monkeys.

4) Animals can't speak like humans, but they use a language of things like sounds and smells.

5) Some animals are cleverer than humans.

8．Which animal did you like best in The Jungle Book? And which animal do you like best in real life? Explain why.

京权图字：01-2006-3292

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

新森林的孩子们＝The Children of the New Forest／（英）马里亚特（Marryat，F.）著；（英）阿基尼米（Akinyemi，R.）改写；咸珊珊译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2013.8 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6812-1

Ⅰ．①新…　Ⅱ．①马…　②阿…　③咸…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物　②儿童文学—短篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．①H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第104900号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 易　璐

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年7月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6812-1

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519





内容简介


1647年，贝弗利家的四个孩子——爱德华、汉弗莱、艾丽斯和小伊迪丝——正藏在新森林里。这时，英国国王被关在狱中，全国各地都在打仗——克伦威尔的人和国王的人打仗。而如果你是支持国王的，你可就极度危险了。

孩子们的父亲为国王作战时牺牲了，他们的母亲也死了，克伦威尔的士兵烧了他们的家，他们没有钱，没有食物，什么都没有了。但是他们有个真正的朋友——老雅各布·阿米蒂奇。所以现在，在雅各布的帮助下，他们必须学会靠土地生活——学习在森林里猎食，学习种菜，学习喂猪养鸡。

但是到处都是克伦威尔的人，孩子们必须学会永远不能说出他们是姓贝弗利……





THE CHILDREN OF THENEW FOREST


NEW FOREST

It is 1647 and the four Beverley children — Edward, Humphrey, Alice and little Edith — are in hiding in the New Forest. The King of England is in prison, and there is fighting everywhere in the country — Cromwell's men against the King's men. And if you are a friend of the King, you are in great danger.

The children's father died while fighting for the King, their mother is dead, Cromwell's soldiers have burnt their home, and they have no money, no food, nothing. But they have one true friend — old Jacob Armitage. So now, with Jacob to help them, they must learn to live off the land — to hunt for meat in the forest, to plant vegetables, to look after the pigs and chickens.

But Cromwell's men are everywhere, and the children must learn never to say that their name is Beverley...





1Escape!


Escape!

One day in November 1647, Jacob Armitage hurried through the New Forest to the house of Arnwood.

'You must leave this house immediately,' he said to Edward Beverley. 'Come with me to pack your things. You must come to my home and stay there.'

'But why, Jacob?' Edward asked the old man. 'Why?'

'The King has escaped from his prison at Hampton Court,' Jacob explained. 'He's riding south through the forest, and Cromwell's soldiers are searching for him. And I've just heard a group of soldiers in the forest — they were talking about Arnwood. They know that your father was the King's friend, and they're planning to burn Arnwood tonight, because they think the King is hiding here.'

'Burn Arnwood! They can't do that! It's my house, and I'm staying here!' Edward said angrily. He was fourteen years old, the oldest of the four Beverley children.

The Beverley children lived alone at Arnwood, with an old woman who did the cooking and all the work of the house. Their father, Colonel Beverley, was killed while fighting for King Charles I at Naseby in 1645. Before he left home, he asked Jacob, a poor forester who lived near Arnwood, to look after his family. Jacob knew the family well and was happy to do this. And when the children's mother died a few months later, Jacob came every day to visit the children and to help them.

'My dear boy,' Jacob said, 'remember your sisters and brother. The soldiers will shoot them, or burn them in the house. No, no, you must all come with me.'

In the end, Edward agreed. He and his brother Humphrey, who was twelve, packed their things. Then they put them on Jacob's horse, White Billy, who was waiting outside.

Jacob told Alice, who was eleven, and Edith, who was eight, that they were going to visit his home in the forest. He did not tell them about the soldiers.

'Edward, here is my key,' said Jacob quietly. 'Lock the door of the house, and take my gun from the wall. Don't leave your brother and sisters. I'll help the cook to pack her things, and then I'll follow you.'

The four children left the big house and went into the forest with White Billy. It was five o'clcok in the afternoon, and already dark. Jacob helped the cook, who hurried away to her family in Lymington, and then he hid in the trees near the house, and waited.

After a while he heard horses, and the Parliamentary soldiers arrived. Soon they were in the gardens and all round the house. A few minutes later Jacob saw black smoke going up into the sky; then he saw flames at the windows. Arnwood was burning!

'It is done,' thought Jacob, and he hurried away into the forest. In half an hour he arrived at his cottage. He looked back and saw the flames of Arnwood shooting higher and higher above the trees.

When he knocked on his door, Edward opened it and came out with Smoker, Jacob's big dog.

'My sisters are asleep in bed,' Edward told Jacob. Then Edward saw the flames of Arnwood and the angry red light between the trees, and he was silent.

'I told you,' Jacob said. 'The soldiers didn't look for you in the house before they burnt it.'

'Arnwood is my house!' said Edward angrily. 'And when I'm a man, I'll fight Cromwell's soldiers for this!'

'Perhaps you will,' Jacob said quietly. 'But let's go inside now. It's a cold night.'

Edward slowly followed Jacob into the cottage. He hated Cromwell and the Parliamentary soldiers. First they killed his father, and now they burnt his house. He lay down on the bed, but he did not sleep.

*　*　*

Jacob lived alone because his wife was dead, and he had no children. His cottage had one large room for living and cooking, and three small bedrooms behind. Outside there were a few chickens and pigs in one field and some old fruit trees in another field.

The next morning Jacob began to teach the children how to cook and to clean the cottage. It was all new work to them, because rich children like the Beverleys never cooked or worked in the house.

'You must stay inside today,' Jacob told them, 'because the soldiers are still searching the forest. Let's get some dinner ready. We can all help. Edward, will you go and get some water from the river?'

The children enjoyed cooking their first meal. They washed some potatoes and cut some meat and vegetables into pieces. Then they put them with some water in a pot on the fire. Little Edith put plates and knives on the table.

While the dinner was cooking, Edward stood outside the cottage, watching out for soldiers, and the other three made the cottage tidy. But just before dinner was ready, Edward ran back inside.

'I can see soldiers, and they're riding this way!'

Jacob was silent for a minute. 'My dear children, those soldiers will search the cottage, and I don't want them to see your rich clothes. You must go to bed and pretend to be ill. Edward, you can put on one of my old shirts.'

The younger children got into bed and hid their rich clothes. Edward put on Jacob's old shirt and sat next to the bed with a cup of water for his sisters. Quickly, Jacob put away the plates and knives. Soon there was a knock on the door.

'Come in,' said Jacob.

'Who are you, my firend?' asked one of the soldiers.

'A poor forester, sir,' replied Jacob, 'in great trouble. My grandchildren are all in bed, very ill.'

'We must search your cottage for the King.'

'Very well — but please don't frighten the children.'

The men began to search the cottage. Edith screamed when she saw them, but Edward told her not to be afraid.

'There's nothing here,' one of the soldiers said. 'Let's go. I'm tired and hungry.'

'There's something here that smells good,' said another soldier. 'What is it?' he asked, looking into the pot.

'My dinner for a week,' explained Jacob. 'I can't light a fire every day, so I cook once a week.'

'Well, it looks good, so we'll try some,' the soldiers said. And they put the pot on the table, sat down, and ate everything. Then they thanked Jacob and rode away.

Jacob called the children and told them to get up. 'The soldiers have gone,' he said.

'And our dinners have gone too,' said Humphrey, looking at the dirty plates and the empty pot.

'Bad men ate our dinner,' said Edith.

'We can cook another,' said Jacob. 'We're all hungry, but if everyone helps, the dinner will soon be ready.'

After dinner, Jacob told the children that their lives must change. 'The King's enemies think that you are dead, burned in Arnwood. But you are still in danger, and so you must stay here with me and pretend to be my grandchildren. You are children of the New Forest now.'

escape v. to break free from confinement or control 逃跑

hurry v. move or act with speed or haste 快速地移动

pack v. to fill (a suitcase or bag ) with clothes and other items needed for travel 捆扎，打包

forester n. a person in charge of a forest or skilled in forestry 护林人

flame n. red or yellow burning gas that is generated by something on fire 火焰，火苗

cottage n. a small simple house, typically one in the country 农舍，村舍

hate v. to have a very strong dislike of 憎恨

clean v. to make free of mess 打扫，清扫

vegetable n. a plant or part of a plant used as food 蔬菜

pot n. a round container made of metal, clay, etc., used for storage or cooking 锅

tidy adj. arranged neatly and in order 整齐的，整洁的

scream v. to utter a long, loud, piercing cry, as from pain or fear 尖叫

1 ．快逃！

1647年11月的一天，雅各布·阿米蒂奇匆忙穿过新森林赶到安伍德大宅。

“你们必须马上离开这所房子，”他对爱德华·贝弗利说，“跟我来收拾你们的东西。你们必须到我家去，待在那里。”

“可为什么啊，雅各布？”爱德华问老人，“为什么？”

“国王从汉普顿宫的监狱中逃出来了，”雅各布解释道，“他正骑马穿越森林向南逃，克伦威尔的士兵正在搜寻他。而且我刚才听到森林里一群士兵的谈话——他们在谈论安伍德。他们知道你父亲是国王的朋友，他们正打算今晚烧掉安伍德，因为他们认为国王正藏在这儿。”

“烧掉安伍德！他们不能那样做！这是我的 房子，我要留在这儿！”爱德华愤怒地说。他14岁了，是贝弗利家四个孩子中的老大。

贝弗利家的四个孩子自己住在安伍德，有个老妇人给他们做饭并负责所有的家务活儿。他们的父亲贝弗利上校1645年在内斯比为国王查理一世作战时牺牲了。他离家之前请求雅各布——一个住在安伍德附近的穷困的护林人——照顾他的家人。雅各布和这家人很熟，很乐意做这件事。几个月后孩子们的母亲去世了，雅各布便每天都来看孩子们，帮助他们。

“我亲爱的孩子，”雅各布说，“想想你的妹妹们和弟弟。士兵们会开枪打他们的，或者把他们烧死在房子里。不，不，你们必须全部跟我来。”

最后，爱德华同意了。他和12岁的弟弟汉弗莱收拾好东西，然后把它们放到雅各布的马上。这匹马叫白比利，正在外面等着。

雅各布告诉11岁的艾丽斯和8岁的伊迪丝，说他们要去他在森林里的家里住几天。他没告诉她们有关士兵的事。

“爱德华，这是我的钥匙，”雅各布轻轻地说，“把房门锁上，把我的枪从墙上拿下来，不要离开你的弟弟妹妹们。我帮厨娘收拾她的东西，然后就会跟上你们。”

四个孩子离开了大房子，和白比利一起走进了森林里。那时是下午5点钟，天已经黑了。雅各布帮厨娘收拾好，她便匆忙赶往她在利明顿的家了，然后雅各布藏在房子附近的树林中等待着。

过了一会儿，他听到了马蹄声，议会的士兵到了。很快他们就散布到花园里和房子四周。几分钟后，雅各布看到黑烟升上天空，然后他看到了窗口冒出来的火苗。安伍德着火了！

“完了。”雅各布想。他急忙离开走进了森林，半个小时后到了自己的农舍。他回头看了看，看到安伍德的火越烧越旺，火苗在树顶上越升越高。

他敲了敲门，爱德华打开门，和雅各布的大狗斯莫克尔一起走出来。

“我的妹妹们上床睡觉了。”爱德华告诉雅各布。这时爱德华看见了安伍德的大火和树林中透出的愤怒的红色火光，他沉默了。

“我告诉过你的，”雅各布说，“那些士兵烧房子之前都没有进去找你们。”

“安伍德是我的 房子！”爱德华愤怒地说，“等我长大了，我会跟克伦威尔的士兵算这笔账的！”

“或许你会的，”雅各布平静地说，“但是现在我们进屋去吧。今天夜里很冷。”

爱德华跟着雅各布慢慢地走进农舍里。他恨克伦威尔和议会的那些士兵。他们先是杀了他父亲，现在又烧了他的房子。他躺在床上，却无法入睡。

*　*　*

雅各布是一个人生活，因为他妻子去世了，而且他没有孩子。他的农舍里有一个起居和做饭用的大房间，后面有三间小卧室。屋子外面的一块地里养了几只鸡和几头猪，另外一块地里长着几棵老果树。

第二天早晨，雅各布开始教孩子们做饭和打扫屋子。这些对他们来说都是新鲜的工作，因为像贝弗利家这种富人家的孩子们在家从来不做饭，也不用干活。

“你们今天必须待在屋里，”雅各布告诉他们，“因为士兵们还在搜查森林。我们来做点儿晚餐吧，大家都可以帮忙。爱德华，你能不能去河里打些水来？”

孩子们第一次做饭都很开心。他们洗了一些土豆，把肉和蔬菜切成块，然后加水一起放进炉火上的锅里。小伊迪丝把盘子和餐刀摆到桌子上。

晚饭在火上煮着时，爱德华站在农舍外面放哨，其他三个孩子把农舍打扫整洁。但正当晚饭要做好的时候，爱德华跑回屋里来。

“我能看到士兵，他们正骑着马往这边来！”

雅各布沉默了片刻。“我亲爱的孩子们，那些士兵会搜查农舍的，我不想让他们看到你们华丽的衣服。你们必须躺到床上装病。爱德华，你可以穿上我的一件旧衬衫。”

年幼的孩子们爬上床，藏起他们华丽的衣服。爱德华穿上雅各布的旧衬衫，给妹妹们端了一杯水坐在床边。雅各布迅速把盘子和餐刀收起来。很快传来了敲门声。

“进来。”雅各布说。

“你是谁，我的朋友？”其中一个士兵问道。

“一个贫穷的护林人，先生，”雅各布回答，“处境非常困难。我的孙子孙女们都在床上，病得很厉害。”

“我们必须搜查你的农舍寻找国王。”

“好的——但是请别吓着孩子们。”

那些人开始搜查农舍。伊迪丝看到他们的时候尖叫起来，但是爱德华告诉她不要害怕。

“这里没有，”其中一个士兵说，“我们走吧，我又累又饿。”

“这里有什么东西闻起来很不错。”另一个士兵说。“这是什么？”他看着锅里问道。

“我一个星期的晚餐，”雅各布解释说，“我不能每天都生火，所以每星期做一次饭。”

“哦，看起来不错，我们要尝尝。”士兵们说。然后他们把锅端到桌子上，坐下吃光了所有的东西。他们谢过雅各布便骑马离开了。

雅各布把孩子们叫起来。“士兵们已经走了。”他说。

“我们的晚餐也没了。”汉弗莱看着那些脏盘子和空空的锅说道。

“坏人们吃了我们的晚餐。”伊迪丝说。

“我们可以再做一顿，”雅各布说，“我们都饿了，但是如果每个人都帮忙，晚餐很快就会做好的。”

晚饭之后，雅各布告诉孩子们，他们的生活必须改变了。“国王的敌人以为你们死了，在安伍德被烧死了。但是你们还处在危险中，所以你们必须和我待在这里，装作是我的孙子孙女。你们现在是新森林的孩子了。”





2Life in the Forest


Life in the Forest

The next morning Jacob rode to the town of Lymington. There he heard that the King was in prison again and that Cromwell's soldiers were going back to London. Jacob bought cottage clothes for the children and a few things for the house. Then he put everything on his horse and walked back home through the forest.

While he walked, he thought about the children. They were so young, and alone in a dangerous world — he was their only friend. But he was an old man, and perhaps would not live long. He knew he must teach them how to find food and do everything for themselves.

After dinner, he called the children round him. 'Now, remember, you are my grandchildren and your name is Armitage, not Beverley. I've bought you some cottage clothes to wear, and you must all learn to work and live like a forester's children. Edward is the oldest and he must come out with me into the forest and learn how to hunt. Then we'll have meat to eat every day. Humphrey, you must look after the horse and the pigs, and bring water from the river every day. Alice dear, you must light the fire, clean the house and wash the clothes, and you and Humphrey will both learn how to cook. And little Edith will look after the chickens and look for the eggs every morning — will you, Edith?'

'Yes,' said Edith. 'I liked the chickens at Arnwood.'

There was no more meat in the cottage and so the next morning Jacob and Edward, with the dog Smoker, went out into the forest. They walked quietly and did not speak. The red deer of the forest could see, hear and smell very well, and it was hard to get near them.

After more than a mile, Jacob dropped down to the ground, and through the trees Edward saw three deer. Jacob moved silently forward on his hands and knees, and Edward and Smoker followed him. Slowly they got nearer, but then suddenly the deer, who were quietly eating grass, put up their heads and walked away.

Jacob turned. 'You see, Edward, hunting is slow work. Now we must go through the woods around the other side of the deer and try again.'

'What frightened them, do you think?' asked Edward.

'When you were following me, I think you put your knee on a piece of stick and it broke.'

'Yes, but that made only a little noise.'

'Only a little noise will frighten a red deer,' said Jacob kindly. 'But these mistakes can happen to anyone, and you will learn. Now — not a word, and not a sound!'

In half an hour they found the deer again, and again Jacob dropped down to the ground and moved forward without a sound. At last, he lifted his gun and shot one of the deer behind the shoulder. The deer dropped to its knees and fell dead, and the other deer ran away.

'This is a fine deer and the meat will be good,' said Jacob. 'We're about five miles from the cottage, Edward, but Smoker will take you home, and you can come back with White Billy. He must carry the meat home for us.'

It was a good beginning to their new life, and the next day Jacob rode to Lymington to sell some of the meat. With the money he bought things for the vegetable garden, a big bag of oatmeal for the winter, and a gun for Edward.

*　*　*

That winter was long and cold, and they stayed in the cottage most of the time. Alice learned how to cook and to mend clothes. Edith learned to read and write, and to make oatmeal bread and cook it on the stones by the fire. Humphrey was clever with his hands, and learned how to make things out of wood. Edward learned how to shoot and to look after his gun. They were all busy and happy, but Edward sometimes felt angry. He kept his father's sword by his bed and often cleaned it. He hated Cromwell and his soldiers, and he wanted to fight for the King.

In the month of May, the leaves came out and the forest began to look green again. 'And now, Edward,' said Jacob one day, 'we need more meat, both to eat and to sell. So let's get our guns and go out. You can shoot first.'

They walked four or five miles before they saw a deer. 'Stay here, while I go through the trees with Smoker,' said Jacob quietly. 'Then I'll stand up, and the deer will run towards you. Remember, shoot it behind the shoulder.'

Edward waited quietly, and after a time the deer ran out of the trees in front of him. He lifted his gun, shot the deer behind the shoulder, and it fell to the ground.

'Well done!' said Jacob, when he came back. 'You killed your first deer! And it's a fine one, too. Soon I shall leave the hunting to you, and put my gun up on the wall!'

The spring was a busy time for everyone at the cottage. In the field they planted potatoes and lots of different vegetables. Little Edith was busy with her chickens, and Humphrey built a chicken-house, and a house for the pigs. Jacob sold some of the deer meat and bought a little cart. White Billy was not very happy about this at first, but he soon learned to pull the cart behind him, and it was a great help with all the farm work.

Humphrey loved the work on the farm. He was always making plans to do new things, and he was now very clever at building things out of wood. It was hard work. First he had to cut down a tree, and then cut the wood into pieces for building. One day he began to build a cow-house.

'We need a cow to give us milk,' he said to the others. 'I'm going to catch one of the forest cows.'

Edward laughed, but Jacob said, 'The forest cows are very wild, and can be dangerous. You must be careful.'

June arrived, and they began to cut the long grass, to keep for food for the animals in winter. The girls helped too, and White Billy was busy every day, pulling home the new cart full of summer grass.

Humphrey did not forget about his cow. He finished building the cow-house and began to spend an hour or more every day out in the forest. He was watching the wild cows. Early one morning he came running home.

'Jacob, Edward, come with me! Bring Smoker, too.'

'Why, what's the matter?'

'I've found a cow! She's left the other cows because of her new-born calf. So she's alone, and we can catch her.'

'But how?' asked Edward.

'I'll tell you later. I must get White Billy and the cart.' Jacob and Edward followed him, and soon they were driving the cart through the forest.

'Smoker will jump up at the cow,' explained Humphrey, 'and keep her away from us while we put the calf in the cart. When we drive away, the cow will follow her baby.'

The cow was lying near her calf, but when she saw them, she got up and shook her head angrily from side to side.

'Go, Smoker, go!' Jacob called to his dog, and Smoker jumped at the cow, driving her back into the trees away from her calf. Edward and Humphrey quickly lifted the calf into the cart, and got in themselves.

Then Jacob hurried back and got in too. 'Drive off, Humphrey,' he said. 'I'll call Smoker now, and the cow will follow us. Here, Smoker, here!'

Smoker came running out of the trees at once. The cow followed and ran wildly after the cart, calling loudly to her calf. Before long they were back at the cottage.

'There's Alice and Edith running out!' cried Jacob. 'Go back inside, Alice! The cow is dangerous!'

Humphrey drove the cart into the field. Smoker kept the cow away while they carried the calf into the cow-house. Then they left, and the cow followed its calf inside.

'There!' said Humphrey. 'Let's leave her with the calf. Tomorrow I'll cut some grass for her.'

Every day for a fortnight Humphrey brought grass to the cow, and every day she was a little quieter. After a month, Humphrey began to take milk from the cow.

'I have learned how to shoot deer,' said Edward. 'But Humphrey has caught a cow and given us milk. You are cleverer than I am, brother!'

deer n. a hoofed grasseating animal, of which the males usually have wide branching horns 鹿

silently adv. not making or accompanied by any sound 静静地

shoulder n. the joint between the upper arm or forelimb and the main part of the body 肩部

oatmeal n. crushed oats used for making cakes and porridge 燕麦片

mend v. to restore to a sound condition 修补

potato n. a starchy plant tuber which is one of the most important food crops, cooked and eaten as a vegetable 土豆

cart n. a vehicle with two or four wheels that is pulled by a horse and used for carrying heavy things 马车

wild adj. (of animals or plants) living or growing in the natural environment; not domesticated or cultivated （动植物）野生的，野蛮的

calf n. the baby of a cow 小牛

shake v. to tremble or vibrate or cause to do so 摇晃，摇动

fortnight n. a period of two weeks 两星期

2 ．森林里的生活

第二天早上雅各布骑马去了利明顿镇。他在那里听说国王又入狱了，克伦威尔的士兵们要返回伦敦了。雅各布给孩子们买了农家衣物，还买了一些家用品。然后他把所有的东西放到他的马上，穿过森林走回家。

他一边走一边想着孩子们。他们年纪这么小，又独自处在这个危险的世界上——他是他们唯一的朋友。但是他已经是个老人了，可能活不了多久了。他知道自己必须教会他们如何寻找食物，如何自己处理一切事情。

晚饭之后，他把孩子们叫到身边。“现在要记住，你们是我的孙子和孙女，你们姓阿米蒂奇，不姓贝弗利。我给你们买了些农家衣服穿，你们全都必须学会像个护林人的孩子一样干活和过日子。爱德华是老大，他必须和我一起去森林里学习打猎，这样我们就每天都有肉吃了。汉弗莱，你必须照看好马和猪，并且每天从河里打水回来。亲爱的艾丽斯，你必须生炉火、打扫屋子和洗衣服，你和汉弗莱都要学做饭。小伊迪丝要喂鸡，每天早上找鸡蛋——你愿意做吗，伊迪丝？”

“愿意，”伊迪丝说，“我在安伍德的时候就喜欢小鸡。”

农舍里没有肉了，所以第二天早上雅各布和爱德华就带着大狗斯莫克尔去了森林里。他们悄悄地走着，没有说话。森林里的红鹿的视觉、听觉和嗅觉都非常灵敏，很难接近它们。

走出一英里开外之后，雅各布突然趴到地上，爱德华透过树丛看到了三只鹿。雅各布手和膝盖着地，悄无声息地向前挪动，爱德华和斯莫克尔跟在他后面。他们慢慢靠近了，但是突然间，刚才还在安静地吃草的鹿抬起头来走开了。

雅各布转过身。“你看，爱德华，打猎是个慢活。现在我们必须穿过树林，从鹿群的另一侧再试试看。”

“你觉得是什么吓着它们了？”爱德华问。

“你刚才跟着我的时候，我想你的膝盖压到了一根树枝，把它弄断了。”

“没错，但那只是很小的声音。”

“很小的声音也会把一只红鹿吓跑，”雅各布温和地说，“但是任何人都可能犯这种错误，你会学会的，现在——一句话也别说了，一点儿声音也别出！”

半个小时之后他们又发现了鹿，雅各布又趴到地上，静悄悄地向前挪动。最后，他举起枪朝其中一只鹿的后背开了一枪。那只鹿跪倒在地上死了，其他的鹿纷纷逃散。

“这是只很好的鹿，它的肉应该不错，”雅各布说，“爱德华，我们现在离农舍大概有5英里，但是斯莫克尔会带你回家的，然后你可以和白比利一起回来。他必须帮我们把肉运回家去。”

这是他们新生活的一个好的开始。第二天，雅各布骑马去利明顿卖了一些肉，他用那些钱买了菜园里需要的东西，一大袋冬天吃的燕麦片和一支给爱德华的枪。

*　*　*

那个冬天又长又冷，他们大部分时间都待在农舍里。艾丽斯学会了做饭和补衣服。伊迪丝学会了看书和写字，还学会了做燕麦面包和在炉火旁的石头上烤面包。汉弗莱的手很巧，他学会了用木头制作东西。爱德华学会了射击和照看他的枪。他们都很忙碌，也很快乐，但是爱德华有时候会感到愤怒。他把父亲的剑放在床边，经常擦拭。他恨克伦威尔和他的士兵，他想为国王作战。

到了5月，树叶长出来了，森林又重新披上绿色。“现在，爱德华，”有一天雅各布说，“我们需要更多的肉，用来吃和卖钱。所以我们带上枪出去打猎吧。你可以先开枪。”

他们走了四五英里后看到了一只鹿。“你待在这里，我和斯莫克尔从树丛中穿过去，”雅各布轻轻地说，“然后我会站起来，鹿就会朝你跑过来。记住，要打它的后背。”

爱德华静静地等着，过了一会儿，那只鹿从他前面的树丛跑了出来。他举起枪，朝鹿的后背开了枪，那只鹿就倒在了地上。

“干得好！”雅各布回来说，“这是你打的第一只鹿！而且这也是一只很好的鹿。很快我就可以把打猎的事交给你，把我的枪挂到墙上了！”

春天对于农舍里的每个人来说都是个繁忙的季节。他们在地里种了土豆和许多各种各样的蔬菜。小伊迪丝忙着照看她的鸡，汉弗莱造了一个鸡舍和一个猪圈。雅各布卖了一些鹿肉，买了一辆小马车。白比利一开始对此不太高兴，但是他很快就学会了把这辆车拉在身后，这给所有的农活都帮了大忙。

汉弗莱喜欢干农场上的活儿。他总是在计划着做新的东西，现在他非常精通用木头做东西了。这是件苦差事。首先他必须砍倒一棵树，然后把木头砍成几块用来建造。有一天，他开始动工造一个牛棚。

“我们需要一头牛挤奶喝，”他对其他人说，“我打算去逮一头森林里的牛。”

爱德华大笑，雅各布却说：“森林里的牛非常野蛮，可能会有危险。你一定要小心。”

6月到了，他们开始割长草，用作牲畜们冬天的食物，女孩子们也帮忙，白比利则每天都忙着把装满夏草的新马车拉回家。

汉弗莱没有忘记他的牛。他盖完了牛棚，就开始每天花一个小时或更多的时间待在森林里。他在观察野牛。一天清晨，他跑回家来。

“雅各布，爱德华，跟我来！把斯莫克尔也带上。”

“为什么，出什么事了？”

“我找到了一头牛！她为了刚出生的小牛离开了其他的牛，所以落单了，我们可以逮住她。”

“可是怎么逮呢？”爱德华问。

“过一会儿我会告诉你的。我必须准备好白比利和马车。”雅各布和爱德华跟着他，很快他们就驾着马车穿行在森林里了。

“斯莫克尔会跳起来扑向母牛，”汉弗莱解释道，“在我们把小牛放到车上的时候把母牛与我们隔开来。我们驾车离开的时候，母牛就会跟着她的孩子。”

母牛正躺在她的小牛旁边，但一看到他们，她就站了起来，愤怒地左右摇摆着脑袋。

“上，斯莫克尔，上！”雅各布冲着他的狗喊道，斯莫克尔扑向母牛，把她赶回到树丛里，离开了她的小牛。爱德华和汉弗莱飞快地抬起小牛放进车里，他们自己也上了车。

然后雅各布快速回来也上了车。“赶车，汉弗莱，”他说，“我现在要叫回斯莫克尔，母牛会跟着我们的。这里，斯莫克尔，这里！”

斯莫克尔立刻跑出树丛。母牛在后面疯狂地跟着马车跑，向她的小牛大声叫着。没多久他们就回到了农舍。

“艾丽斯和伊迪丝正往外跑呢！”雅各布喊道，“回屋里去，艾丽斯！母牛很危险！”

汉弗莱把马车赶到空地里。斯莫克尔把母牛拦住，他们便趁机把小牛抱进牛棚。然后他们一走开，母牛就跟着她的小牛进去了。

“进去了！”汉弗莱说，“我们让她和小牛待在一起吧。明天我会给她割些草来。”

接下来的两周里，汉弗莱每天都给母牛送草，母牛一天比一天安静下来。一个月之后，汉弗莱开始从母牛身上挤奶了。

“我学会了怎么打鹿，”爱德华说，“但是汉弗莱逮住了一头奶牛，让我们有牛奶喝。你比我聪明，弟弟！”





3Edward Goes Visiting


Edward Goes Visiting

And so the summer went by, and every day was busier than the one before. Humphrey caught two more calves, and they now had more pigs and chickens. Jacob took some of the new young chickens to Lymington to sell, and bought salt and oatmeal, pots for the kitchen, and a gun for Humphrey.

King Charles was still in prison, and Cromwell's men went on killing their enemies and stealing the houses and land of the King's friends. Edward could not forget that he was a Beverley of Arnwood, and was often angry.

'I want to be a soldier like our father,' he told Humphrey. 'I want to fight for the King, and tell the world that my name is Beverley!'

'If you do that, Cromwell's men will put you in prison,' Humphrey said. 'I know how you feel, Edward, but for now. you must stay here with us. What will happen to our sisters if you leave? I can't do all the work, and poor Jacob is getting old and tired.'

It was true. Jacob was nearly seventy-six years old and no longer strong. That winter he was often ill and could not leave the cottage. Edward did most of the hunting. He was now very good at it, and knew the forest well.

Early in 1649 Humphrey told Jacob that he needed another dog. 'Smoker is a hunting dog,' he said. 'I need a dog to help me with all the farm animals.'

'A puppy will learn most easily,' said Jacob. 'Oswald Partridge, a forester who lives on the other side of the forest, always has puppies, and he will give us one. But Edward, you must go. I cannot ride that far. Tell Oswald that you are my grandson. He'll be a good friend to you. But remember, your name is Armitage!'

The next morning Edward rode White Billy across the forest. He was happy to go out into the world again, but he knew he must be careful. After two hours he arrived at some cottages and knocked on the first door. A girl aged about fourteen opened the door, and told him that Oswald Partridge was out in the forest.

'I must wait for him, then,' said Edward. 'I've come to ask him for a puppy for my grandfather, Jacob Armitage.'

'Wait a minute,' the girl said. She went inside, and then came back. 'You must come and speak to my father.'

Edward followed the girl inside. The man sitting at a table was dressed like one of Cromwell's men. His tall hat lay on a chair with his sword underneath it. The girl sat down by the fire, and the man went on reading a letter. He did not look at Edward for two or three minutes.

Edward felt angry. But he was just a poor, unimportant forester, he remembered. So he said nothing, and waited.

'What's your business, young man?' the man said at last.

'I came, sir, to see Oswald Partridge about a puppy for my grandfather, Jacob Armitage.'

'Armitage!' The man looked at some papers on the table. 'Yes, one of the foresters. Why hasn't he visited me?'

'Why must he see you, sir?'

'Because Cromwell has given the New Forest to me, to look after for Parliament. My name is Hetherstone, and all the foresters now work for me.'

'My grandfather has not heard this, sir,' said Edward. 'The New Forest belongs to the King, and my grandfather is one of the King's foresters. But he has a cottage and a farm which belong to him, and not the King.'

'Yes, I know about Jacob Armitage. And I know that he was Colonel Beverley's friend. The Colonel was a brave man, it's true, but he fought for the King and so was an enemy of Parliament. Tell me, were you a friend of the Beverley family?'

'When I was a child, I lived at Arnwood with the Beverley children.'

'And where were you when the soldiers burned Arnwood?'

'I was at my grandfather's cottage,' replied Edward, his eyes wild with anger.

'I can understand why you feel angry about that.' Mr Hetherstone shook his head slowly. 'Those soldiers did a terrible, terrible thing, 'he said quietly. Then he looked up at Edward again. 'But you must understand, young man, that your grandfather can no longer work as a forester. I cannot give work to people who are friends of the King. The forest deer now belong to Cromwell, and if you shoot any deer, you will go to prison for it.'

'Sir,' Edward said quietly, 'the King himself is in prison and so he cannot pay his foresters. If they kill the deer, it is because they must have food to eat. I am sure the King will understand that his people must live.'

'Well, well, those are brave words. But you will still go to prison if we catch you. Now, you can go to the kitchen and wait for Oswald.' Mr Hetherstone turned to his daughter. 'Patience, give Armitage something to eat.'

Edward went out and took White Billy to the stables behind the cottage, then followed Patience to the kitchen. 'I came here for a puppy,' he thought, 'and I have found a Roundhead — who sends a Beverley of Arnwood to eat in the kitchen! But he is sorry about the burning of Arnwood, so I don't hate him.'

Patience put food on the table. Edward thanked her and sat down to eat. Patience smiled, and Edward saw that she was a beautiful girl.

Later, he met Oswald Partridge and saw his dogs. Oswald was very surprised to see him. 'I never knew Jacob had a grandson,' he said. 'I never knew he had a son! Are you on the King's side, like Jacob?'

'To the death, ' replied Edward, 'when the time comes.'

'Ah, then you can have one of my puppies,' Oswald said. He told Edward a bit about Mr Hetherstone. 'He's one of Cromwell's good friends, they say, but he's not a bad man. There are some much worse than him. I've kept my job, but many haven't. We must all be careful these days.'

It was now late, so Edward stayed the night in a room above the stables. There was no bed and no door, and Edward could not sleep because he was so cold. Soon he got up and began to walk around outside, to get warm.

There was a light upstairs at one of the windows of the Hetherstones, cottage, which was strangely bright. Edward watched it. He saw someone moving in the room, and suddenly he saw flames. The room was burning!

'Fire! Fire!' he shouted. He ran back to the stables and found a ladder. Then he quickly climbed up it to the window, broke the glass, and got into the room. There was smoke everywhere, and he fell over a body on the floor. Quickly, he lifted the body and moved back to the window. The flames were now running along the floor, getting higher and higher. With the body in his arms, he got out onto the ladder, but the flames caught his shirt, burning his arm. He climbed down and carried the body into the stables. There he saw that it was Patience Hetherstone.

Edward ran outside again, and saw that other people were coming with buckets of water. There was a lot of shouting, and Edward was soon up the ladder again while others carried buckets of water up to him.

In the crowd below, Mr Hetherstone was trying to get near the ladder. 'Save her!' he cried. 'My daughter's up there! She'll burn to death!'

At the top of the ladder, Edward did not hear his cries, but a voice came from the crowd：'There were four burned at Arnwood.'

Mr Hetherstone fell down, his face white, and some men carried him into another cottage.

At last the fire was put out, and Edward came down the ladder. He called Oswald and they went to the stables. Patience was still lying on the floor, but her eyes were now open. She was alive!

They gave her some water and carried her to Oswald's cottage. Then Edward said quietly to Oswald, 'I shall ride home now at once. Come and visit Jacob soon if you can. He's not been well all this winter.'

'But Mr Hetherstone will want to thank you for saving his daughter's life,' said Oswald.

'I don't want Mr Hetherstone's thanks. I want nothing from the King's enemy,' said Edward. He rode home with Humphrey's puppy inside his coat. His arm was badly burned, and it was a long time before it was better.

steal v. to take something without permission or legal right and without intending to return it 偷窃

puppy n. a young dog 小狗

dress v. to put clothes on 给……穿衣

underneath prep. directly below 在……的下面

brave adj. showing courage 勇敢的

stable n. a building for housing horses 马厩

Roundhead n. a supporter of the Parliament against the King in the English Civil War （英国内战时支持议会反对国王的）圆颅党人

like prep. similar to 像，如同

bright adj. giving out much light, or filled with light 明亮的

ladder n. a structure consisting of a series of bars or steps between two upright lengths of wood or metal, used for climbing up or down 梯子

bucket n. a cylindrical open container with a handle, used to carry liquids 桶

3 ．爱德华外出拜访

夏天就这样过去了，一天比一天更忙碌。汉弗莱又逮了两头小牛，而且他们现在有了更多的猪和鸡。雅各布把一些新出生的小鸡拿到利明顿去卖，买回来盐和燕麦片，买了厨房用的锅，还给汉弗莱买了一支枪。

国王查理仍然在狱中，克伦威尔的人继续杀害他们的敌人，并窃取国王支持者的房子和土地。爱德华无法忘记他是安伍德贝弗利家的一员，时常气愤不已。

“我想像我们的父亲一样成为一名士兵，”他对汉弗莱说，“我想为国王而战，告诉全世界我的姓氏是贝弗利！”

“如果你那样做，克伦威尔的人会把你抓进监狱的，”汉弗莱说，“我明白你的感受，爱德华，但是目前你必须和我们待在这儿。如果你离开了，我们的妹妹们怎么办？我干不了所有的活儿，可怜的雅各布年纪越来越老，越来越累了。”

这是事实。雅各布将近76岁了，已经不再强壮了。那个冬天他经常生病，都无法离开农舍了。大部分打猎的活儿都是爱德华包了。他现在很擅长打猎，对森林也很熟悉。

1649年初，汉弗莱告诉雅各布他还需要一只狗。“斯莫克尔是只猎犬，”他说，“我需要一只狗来帮我照看农场里的所有动物。”

“小狗学得最快了，”雅各布说，“奥斯瓦尔德·帕特里奇是住在森林另一边的护林人，他那儿总是有小狗，他会给我们一只的。但是爱德华，你得去一趟。我不能骑马走那么远。告诉奥斯瓦尔德你是我的孙子，他会对你很友好的。但是记住，你是姓阿米蒂奇！”

第二天早上，爱德华骑着白比利穿过森林。他很高兴又重新走进了外面的世界，但是他知道自己必须要小心。两个小时之后，他来到了一片农舍外，敲了敲第一户人家的门。一个14岁左右的女孩开了门，她告诉他奥斯瓦尔德·帕特里奇到森林里去了。

“那么我得等他了，”爱德华说，“我来是为了替我爷爷雅各布·阿米蒂奇向他要一只小狗。”

“等一会儿。”那个女孩说。她走进屋去又走回来。“你得来跟我父亲说。”

爱德华跟着女孩走进去。坐在桌旁的男人穿得像是克伦威尔的人。他的高帽子放在一把椅子上，帽子下面放着他的剑。女孩在炉火旁坐下，那个男人继续看一封信，有两三分钟都没看爱德华一眼。

爱德华感到气愤。但是他只是一个毫不重要的穷护林人，他记得这一点。所以他什么也没说，只是等着。

“你有什么事情，年轻人？”那个男人终于开口了。

“先生，我是来找奥斯瓦尔德·帕特里奇的，为我爷爷雅各布·阿米蒂奇向他要只小狗。”

“阿米蒂奇！”男人看了看桌上的一些文件。“哦，一个护林人。他为什么没来见我？”

“为什么他必须来见您，先生？”

“因为克伦威尔把新森林给了我，让我替议会照管。我叫赫瑟斯顿，现在所有的护林人都为我工作。”

“我爷爷没有听说此事，先生，”爱德华说，“新森林属于国王，我爷爷是国王的护林人。但是他有一个属于他自己的农舍和农场，这些不是属于国王的。”

“是的，我知道雅各布·阿米蒂奇。而且我还知道他是贝弗利上校的朋友。上校是个勇敢的人，没错，但是他为国王而战，所以就是议会的敌人。告诉我，你是贝弗利家的朋友吗？”

“我小时候和贝弗利家的孩子一起住在安伍德。”

“那么士兵们烧安伍德的时候，你在哪儿呢？”

“我在爷爷的农舍里。”爱德华回答，他的眼神由于愤怒而疯狂。

“我可以理解你为什么为此感到愤怒。”赫瑟斯顿先生缓缓地摇了摇头。“那些士兵做了件非常非常可怕的事情。”他平静地说。然后他又抬头看着爱德华说道：“但是你必须明白，年轻人，你爷爷不能再当护林人了。我不能把工作交给国王的支持者做。森林里的鹿现在也归克伦威尔了，如果你捕杀了任何一只，你就会因此而入狱。”

“先生，”爱德华平静地说，“国王自己也在狱中，所以他不能付钱给他的护林人。如果他们杀死了鹿，那是因为他们必须有食物吃。我敢肯定国王会理解的，他的人民必须活下去。”

“好，好，这些话很勇敢。但是如果我们抓到你这么做的话，你仍然会进监狱的。现在，你可以去厨房等奥斯瓦尔德了。”赫瑟斯顿先生转过头对他的女儿说：“佩兴斯，给阿米蒂奇一些吃的。”

爱德华走出来，把白比利牵到农舍后面的马厩里，然后跟着佩兴斯到了厨房。“我来这里是为了要小狗，”他想，“却发现了一个圆颅党人——他把安伍德贝弗利家的一员打发到厨房里吃饭！但是他为安伍德被烧感到抱歉，所以我不恨他。”

佩兴斯把食物放到桌上。爱德华谢过她，坐下吃起来。佩兴斯笑了，爱德华发现她是个漂亮的姑娘。

稍晚些时，他见到了奥斯瓦尔德·帕特里奇，看到了他养的狗。奥斯瓦尔德看到他非常吃惊。“我从来不知道雅各布有个孙子，”他说，“我从来都不知道他有儿子！你是国王一边的吗，像雅各布一样？”

“至死效忠国王，”爱德华回答道，“只等时机到来。”

“啊，那么你可以得到我的一只小狗。”奥斯瓦尔德说。他告诉了爱德华关于赫瑟斯顿的一些事情。“人们说他是克伦威尔的亲信之一，但他不是个坏人。有些人比他坏多了。我保住了我的工作，但是很多人没有。如今我们都必须小心。”

这时天色已晚，于是爱德华就留在马厩上面的房间里过夜。房里没有床，也没有门，爱德华无法入睡，因为他太冷了。没一会儿他就起来，开始在外面走动，好让自己暖和点。

赫瑟斯顿家农舍的楼上有一个窗口发出光亮，那光亮异常地耀眼。爱德华注视着窗口。他看到有人在屋里走动，突然他看到了火苗。那个房间着火了！

“着火了！着火了！”他大喊。他跑回马厩找了架梯子，然后他快速顺着梯子爬到窗口，打碎玻璃，进了房间。屋里到处都是烟，他绊倒在地板上的一个人身上，他迅速抱起那个人回到窗口。现在火焰正沿着地板燃烧，越烧越高。他抱着那个人出来上了梯子，但是火烧着了他的衬衫，烧到了他的胳膊。他爬下来，把那个人抱到马厩里。在那里他发现这人原来是佩兴斯·赫瑟斯顿。

爱德华又跑出来，看到其他人正提着一桶一桶的水赶来，到处都是喊叫声。爱德华很快又爬到梯子上，而其他人则把水桶递上去给他。

在下面的人群里，赫瑟斯顿先生正试图接近梯子。“救救她！”他喊道，“我女儿在那上面！她会被烧死的！”

爱德华在梯子上面，没听到他的叫喊，但是有个声音从人群中传来：“在安伍德烧死了四个。”

赫瑟斯顿先生跌倒在地，脸色苍白，一些人把他扶进了另一间农舍里。

最后火被扑灭了，爱德华从梯子上下来。他叫上奥斯瓦尔德一起去了马厩。佩兴斯还躺在地上，但是她的眼睛现在睁开了。她还活着！

他们给她喝了些水，把她抬到了奥斯瓦尔德的农舍里。然后爱德华平静地对奥斯瓦尔德说：“我现在要马上骑马回家。如果可以的话，你早点儿来看看雅各布吧。他整个冬天都不太好。”

“但是赫瑟斯顿先生会想谢谢你救了他的女儿的。”奥斯瓦尔德说。

“我不想要赫瑟斯顿先生的感谢，我不想要国王的敌人的任何东西。”爱德华说。他把汉弗莱的小狗揣在外套里，骑马回家了。他的胳膊严重烧伤，很长时间之后才有所恢复。





4Secretary to Mr Hetherstone


Secretary to Mr Hetherstone

When Edward arrived back at the cottage, Humphrey came out to meet him, and his face was unhappy.

'Oh Edward, Jacob is very ill. The girls are with him now. We think he's dying.'

Edward hurried inside, and the four children stayed by Jacob's bedside all that day. In the evening Jacob spoke to them all very lovingly, one by one. Those were his last words, and a little later, he died.

The children cried for a long time because they dearly loved the good old man. The next morning they buried him under an oak tree behind the cottage, and they planted wild flowers above his body.

'We have lost a good friend,' said Edward. 'He saved us from the flames of Arnwood and he has looked after us since then, in his cottage. We must now look after ourselves, and try to be happy together.'

Six weeks went by, and then Oswald Partridge came to visit them. 'How is the old man?' was his first question.

'We buried him six weeks ago,' replied Edward.

'I'm sorry to hear it, ' said the forester. 'He was a good man. And how is your arm?'

'Nearly well,' said Edward. 'Now, sit down, Oswald. Tell me, why didn't you visit us sooner?'

'In a word — murder. These terrible Roundheads have killed the King. A few days after the fire, Mr Hetherstone went to London. He told me to stay near his cottage to look after his daughter. In London he tried to stop the murder, but Cromwell and his men didn't listen to him. He came home yesterday, and told us all about it.'

'The King murdered !' cried Edward. 'How can they murder a King? Well, the time will come. If I cannot fight for the King, one day I shall fight against his murderers.'

Oswald stayed to eat dinner at the cottage, and was very friendly with them all. He stayed the night and the next day Edward decided to tell him their secret.

'Colonel Beverley's children?' said Oswald. 'Well, this is happy news! And it's true, Edward, that you don't look like a forester's son. Mr Hetherstone thinks that too. He has asked me lots of questions about you, and he says that he will visit you himself to thank you for saving his daughter's life. But I'll keep your secret, and I shall be happy to help the Colonel's children.'

'Then can you tell me how much to pay for oatmeal and salt?' said Edward. 'And who will buy deer meat and pay well for it? You see,' he went on, 'now that Jacob is dead, I must go to Lymington myself to do these things.'

Oswald told him the names of men who would buy deer meat — and ask no questions. 'But be careful, Edward. Mr Hetherstone would like to help you because you saved his daughter's life, but he cannot save you from the soldiers if they catch you killing the forest deer.'

During that summer Edward and Humphrey went hunting together when they needed meat. They kept a careful watch for strangers, but they knew the forest well now and could move as silently and as cleverly as the deer. Humphrey's farm was getting bigger all the time. With the vegetable gardens, and the chickens and cows and pigs, it was hard work for them all, but the children never went hungry — thanks to Jacob Armitage's teaching.

One day Humphrey was out in the forest, getting food for the pigs, and he found a Spanish gipsy boy lying on the ground. The boy was nearly dead from hunger and thirst, and Humphrey carried him back to the cottage. Alice and Edith looked after him, and when he was well again, they asked him to stay and work on the farm.

The boy's name was Pablo and he was about fifteen years old. His English was not very good, and he had no friends, no family. He was happy to stay at the cottage.

'Lost in the forest. No food, no water. Nearly dead,' he explained. 'You save my life. Happy to work for you. Happy to have food and bed. Happy to have new friends.'

*　*　*

It was nearly winter when Mr Hetherstone, with his daughter Patience, came to the cottage. At first Alice and Edith were afraid when they saw his tall hat, but he spoke kindly to them all. And Patience took Edward's hand and thanked him again and again for saving her life.

Then Mr Hetherstone spoke to Edward. 'You saved my only child from the fire, Edward Armitage, and I thank you.'

'Mr Hetherstone, I cannot understand you,' Edward said. 'You are a good man — but you are a friend of Cromwell, who has murdered the King!'

'Edward, you are young and you can't remember the troubles in England because of King Charles. He never listened to Parliament, he did only what he wanted, and the people were very angry. They fought because they wanted to be free. But now Cromwell and his friends will listen to nobody. They have murdered the King, and they are worse than he ever was. One day the people of England will be free again. But for now we can't speak of these things openly — it's too dangerous.'

'Thank you, sir,' said Edward quietly. 'I understand you better now. I'll try to be careful, because I want to fight against Cromwell when the time is right.'

Mr Hetherstone looked kindly at Edward. 'Now, I want to help you. You know that you were born for better things than a forester's life. I would like you to be my secretary and live at my house. I will pay you and you can help your family. Don't answer me now. Talk to your brother about it first.'

Alice and Edith made dinner, and they all ate together. Patience enjoyed the farm very much, and she liked Alice and Edith. 'We shall all be firends,' she said when they said goodbye. And she smiled her beautiful smile.

Later, Edward talked to Humphrey. 'What shall I do? I want to be a soldier, not a secretary,' he said.

'You're too young,' said Humphrey. 'I like working on the farm, and now I have Pablo to help me. I know that you want to get out into the world, but for now you must take this job. Mr Hetherstone will be a good friend to us all.'

So Edward bought a black suit and a tall hat, kissed his sisters goodbye, and went to live in Mr Hetherstone's cottage. Every morning he wrote letters for Mr Hetherstone, and every afternoon he spent time with his daughter. He began to like Patience very much. Every week he rode across the forest to see his family. Sometimes Patience went with him, to visit Alice and Edith.

And so a year and more went by. The next winter there was a lot of snow and travelling was difficult. But in the world outside, things were happening, and news came to Mr Hetherstone in the spring.

'The King's son has arrived in Scotland and is now King Charles Ⅱ,' he told Edward. 'He's coming south with his army to England, and I think the time is right for you to ride north and meet him. I'll give you letters to some friends who will help you.'

And so the next morning Edward said goodbye to Patience and kissed her hand. She cried to see him go. Then, with his father's sword by his side, Edward rode away on Mr Hetherstone's black horse, to fight for the King at last.

lovingly adv. in a way that expresses love 钟爱地，亲切地

dearly adv. very much 深深地

bury v. to put or hide underground 埋葬

oak n. a large tree which bears acorns and typically has lobed leaves and hard durable wood 橡树

murder n. the crime of deliberately killing someone 谋杀

gipsy n. a member of a travelling people with dark skin and hair, speaking a language related to Hindi, and traditionally living by itinerant trade and fortune telling 吉普赛人

trouble n. problems that make something difficult 麻烦，问题

suit n. a set of outer clothes made of the same fabric and designed to be worn together, typically consisting of a jacket and trousers or skirt 一套衣服，套装

4 ．赫瑟斯顿先生的秘书

当爱德华回到农舍时，汉弗莱出来迎接他，他一脸忧伤。

“唉，爱德华，雅各布病得很厉害。女孩们现在正陪着他。我们觉得他快要死了。”

爱德华匆忙走进屋里，四个孩子那天一整天都陪在雅各布的床边。晚上，雅各布对他们每个人都疼爱地一一作了嘱咐。那些是他最后的话，没过多久，他就死了。

孩子们哭了很长时间，因为他们深深地爱着这位好心的老人。第二天早上，他们把雅各布埋到了农舍后面的一棵橡树下面，并且在他的坟上种上了野花。

“我们失去了一位好朋友，”爱德华说，“他使我们免遭安伍德那场大火，从那以后他让我们住在他的农舍里，一直照顾我们。现在我们必须自己照顾自己了，而且要尽量高兴地在一起。”

六个星期过去了，这时奥斯瓦尔德·帕特里奇来拜访他们了。“那位老伙计怎么样了？”他一来就问道。

“我们六个星期前埋葬了他。”爱德华回答。

“这让我很难过，”这个护林人说，“他是个好人。那你的胳膊怎么样了？”

“差不多好了，”爱德华说，“现在，坐下吧，奥斯瓦尔德。告诉我，你为什么没有更早一点儿来看我们？”

“一句话——谋杀。这些可怕的圆颅党人杀害了国王。大火之后过了几天，赫瑟斯顿先生去了伦敦。他要我待在他的农舍附近，照顾他女儿。在伦敦，他试图阻止谋杀，但是克伦威尔和他的手下不听他的。他昨天回到家给我们讲了这一切。”

“国王被杀害了！”爱德华大叫，“他们怎么能谋杀一个国王呢？好吧，时机会到来的。如果我不能为国王而战，总有一天我会找那些谋杀国王的凶手算账的。”

奥斯瓦尔德留在农舍里吃了晚餐，他对他们全都非常友好。他在那儿过了夜，第二天爱德华决定把他们的秘密告诉他。

“贝弗利上校的孩子？”奥斯瓦尔德说，“啊，这是个好消息！而且，爱德华，你看起来确实不像一个护林人的儿子，赫瑟斯顿先生也这么认为。他问了我很多关于你的问题，他还说他会亲自来拜访你，感谢你救了他女儿。但是我会为你们保守秘密的，我很高兴能帮助上校的孩子们。”

“那你能告诉我买燕麦片和盐需要多少钱吗？”爱德华问。“另外，有谁会买鹿肉，而且能出个好价钱呢？你知道，”他继续道，“现在雅各布去世了，我必须自己去利明顿做这些事情。”

奥斯瓦尔德告诉了他几个会买鹿肉的人的名字——什么问题都没问。“但是要小心，爱德华。赫瑟斯顿先生会愿意帮助你的，因为你救了他女儿，但是如果你杀森林里的鹿被士兵们抓住，他就救不了你了。”

那个夏天，当他们需要肉的时候，爱德华和汉弗莱就一起去打猎。他们很警惕陌生人，但是他们现在对森林很熟悉了，行动起来能像鹿一样悄无声息而且灵敏。汉弗莱的农场一直在扩大。他们要照看菜园、鸡、牛和猪，这对于他们所有人来说都是很辛苦的工作，可孩子们从来没挨过饿——多亏了雅各布·阿米蒂奇的教导。

有一天，汉弗莱在森林里找猪食时，发现一个西班牙吉普赛男孩躺在地上。男孩又饿又渴，快要死了，汉弗莱把他带回了农舍。艾丽斯和伊迪丝照顾他，当他身体恢复后，他们要他留下来，在农场上干活。

男孩叫帕布洛，大概15岁了。他的英语不太好，没有朋友，也没有家人。他很高兴能留在农舍。

“在森林里迷了路。没有食物，没有水。就快死了，”他解释说，“你们救了我的命。很高兴为你们工作。很高兴有食物和床。很高兴有新朋友。”

*　*　*

赫瑟斯顿先生和他女儿佩兴斯来农舍的时候已经快到冬天了。一开始，艾丽斯和伊迪丝看到他的高帽子时还有些害怕，但是他对他们所有人说话都很和善。佩兴斯拉着爱德华的手，一遍又一遍地感谢他救了自己。

然后赫瑟斯顿先生对爱德华说：“你从火中救了我唯一的孩子，爱德华·阿米蒂奇，我感谢你。”

“赫瑟斯顿先生，我不理解您，”爱德华说，“您是个好人——但您却是克伦威尔一边的，是他杀害了国王！”

“爱德华，你年纪小，不记得国王查理给英国造成的问题。他从来不听议会的意见，只做自己想做的事，人民都很愤怒。人们作战是因为他们想要自由。但是现在克伦威尔和支持他的那帮人谁的话也不听，他们杀害了国王，他们比国王以前还坏。总有一天英国人民会再次自由的。但是现在我们不能公开说这些事——这太危险了。”

“谢谢您，先生，”爱德华轻轻地说，“现在我能理解您多一点儿了。我会尽量小心的，因为我想等时机适当的时候反击克伦威尔。”

赫瑟斯顿先生亲切地看着爱德华。“现在，我想帮助你。你知道，你生来就该拥有比护林人更好的生活。我希望你可以做我的秘书，住在我家。我会付给你酬劳，你可以帮助你的家人。现在别答复我，先和你弟弟商量一下。”

艾丽斯和伊迪丝做了晚饭，他们都在一起吃了饭。佩兴斯非常喜欢农场，也喜欢艾丽斯和伊迪丝。“我们大家都会成为朋友的。”他们道别时她说道，并且露出甜美的微笑。

随后，爱德华和汉弗莱谈了这件事。“我该怎么办呢？我想成为一名士兵，而不是秘书。”他说。

“你太年轻了，”汉弗莱说，“我喜欢在农场干活，而且现在我有帕布洛帮忙。我知道你想到外面的世界去，但是目前你必须接受这份工作。赫瑟斯顿先生会和我们都成为好朋友的。”

于是爱德华买了一套黑色礼服和一顶高帽子，与他的妹妹们吻别后，就搬到赫瑟斯顿先生家里去了。每天早上他替赫瑟斯顿先生草拟信件，下午就和他女儿待在一起。他开始非常喜欢佩兴斯了。他每周都骑马穿过森林回去看望他的家人，有时候佩兴斯和他一起去看望艾丽斯和伊迪丝。

就这样一年多过去了。第二年冬天经常下雪，出行很困难。但是在外面的世界，发生了一些事情，消息是在春天传到赫瑟斯顿先生这里的。

“国王的儿子已经到了苏格兰，现在是国王查理二世，”他告诉爱德华，“他正和他的军队往南向英格兰这边来，我想这是你骑马北上与他会合的适当时机了。我会为你写几封信给一些朋友，他们会帮你的。”

于是，第二天早上爱德华向佩兴斯告别，吻了她的手。她哭着目送他离开。就这样，爱德华把他父亲的剑带在身边，骑着赫瑟斯顿先生的黑马出发了，他终于能够去为国王而战了。





5Soldier of the King


Soldier of the King

Edward had many adventures. He made new friends, and the King was very pleased to learn that the children of Colonel Beverley were alive and well. But the time was not yet right for King Charles II. Cromwell's army was still very strong, and by autumn 1651 the King's soldiers were either dead, or running away, back to Scotland. The King himself escaped alone — no one knew where.

Edward returned secretly to the New Forest, wearing the uniform of a dead Roundhead soldier. He arrived at the cottage late at night and frightened his family and Pablo very much. Then they heard his voice, and in a minute Edward was in the arms of his brother and sisters.

Early the next morning Edward rode across the forest to see Mr Hetherstone, who was very pleased to see him. He listened to Edward's news, then said:

'So,we must wait a while longer before we see a new King, and we must still pretend to be Cromwell's friends. We'll say that you went to fight for Cromwell. It was clever of you to come back in a Roundhead's uniform — that will help to keep both of us out of danger.'

For some days Cromwell's men searched the forest for the King. Then came news that the King was now in France, and at last the soldiers left the forest.

Edward returned to his job of secretary to Mr Hetherstone. Patience was very pleased to see him again, but Edward felt uncomfortable. He now wanted to tell Patience that he loved her, and he wanted to tell her father the secret of his name. But he was still a young man, and he did not know how to do either of these things.

One evening he found himself alone in the garden with Patience. For a while they talked of his adventures with the King, then Edward said:

'While I was away, I was always thinking of you. And now I have seen you again, I know that I must speak. I love you, Patience, and want to be with you always.'

Patience looked away. 'You saved my life, and I can never forget that, Edward,' she said quietly. 'I know that you're my friend, and I thank you for your kind words. But I'm young and I must talk to my father.'

Edward did not understand her answer. What did she mean? Did she love him, or didn't she?

'Do you think that your father will say no because I'm only a poor forester?' he began.

Just then Mr Hetherstone came out into the garden and called to them. 'Edward, I was looking for you. A letter has just arrived from Parliament. Look.'

The letter said that Parliament was giving Arnwood and its land to Mr Hetherstone. Edward's face turned white and for a minute he could not speak.

'We'll ride across tomorrow and look at Arnwood. I want to rebuild the house,' said Mr Hetherstone.

'But Arnwood belongs to the Beverley family,' Edward said carefully. 'Perhaps not all the children died in the fire. And if some of them are still alive...'

'I'll give Arnwood back, of course. But for now Arnwood belongs to me, and when Patience marries, it will belong to her husband.'

Edward was silent. He could not tell Mr Hetherstone his secret now, or that he wanted to marry his daughter.

That night he went to bed early, but could not sleep. 'Patience is rich now,' he thought, 'and many men will want to marry her. And I don't think that she loves me. And if I say I am Edward Beverley, I'm sure that Parliament will take Arnwood back, and I'll still be a poor forester. I can't stay here any more. I shall leave England, and go to the King in France.'

Very early the next morning, while everyone else was still asleep, Edward left the house and rode across the forest to the cottage. There he made plans with Humphrey and his sisters. They were very sorry to see him so unhappy.

'It's time for Alice and Edith to leave the forest too,' Edward told Humphrey. 'While I was in the north with the King, I met the Conynghame family, who knew our father very well. They will be happy to take the girls and look after them. Our sisters will have a better life there. And you, Humphrey — why don't you come with me?'

'No,' said Humphrey. 'It will be good for the girls to get away, but it's better that I stay here. Pablo and I can look after the farm together. Also, I can watch and see what happens to Arnwood. One day you'll come back, and who knows what will happen then?'

Edward left that night, and Alice and Edith cried very much. It was an unhappy time for them all — the end of their life together in the forest. Edward left a letter for Mr Hetherstone. 'You have been very kind to me, and I thank you,' he wrote. But he wrote nothing to Patience.

When Mr Hetherstone got Edward's letter, he rode over at once to see Humphrey. He, too, was very unhappy.

'All my plans have gone wrong,' he told Humphrey. 'Edward has gone, and my daughter is very unhappy. I've known for a long time that you were the Beverley children. I wanted Patience to marry Edward. She loves him, but she wanted to talk to me first, because she thought that Edward was a poor man. And I asked Parliament for Arnwood because I wanted to rebuild the house and then give it to Edward. Will you help me, Humphrey, to rebuild the house? One day the King will come back to England, and Edward will come back too. I want Arnwood to be ready for him.'

*　*　*

Edward was away for nearly nine years, fighting with the French army in France and Holland and Spain. But in May 1660, after Cromwell died, Charles Ⅱ came back to be King of England, and Edward Beverley was with him when he rode into London.

Those were happy times in London. But the happiest day of all was the day when the Beverley childern of the New Forest were together again at last.

'The farm at our cottage is now very large,' Humphrey told Edward. 'Mr Hetherstone rebuilt Arnwood and says that it belongs to you. He'll be happy to see you again.'

'And what about Patience?' Alice asked. 'Do you still love her, Edward? She's here in London, you know.'

'Yes, I saw her one day in the crowds at the King's house,' said Edward. 'She's more beautiful than ever. I still love her, but I'm sure that she has forgotten me.'

'You were very unkind to her,' Edith said. 'She was very unhappy when you went away. But she hasn't married anyone in these nine years, and lots of men have asked her. So I think that she still loves you.'

Edith was right, and about a year later Edward married Patience and they lived happily together at Arnwood. Oswald Partridge came to work for Edward there. Humphrey married the daughter of a friend, bought a bigger farm, and gave Jacob Armitage's cottage to Pablo. And Alice and Edith, now beautiful young women, married soldiers of the King. And there we will say goodbye to the Beverleys.

adventure n. an unusual, exciting and daring experience 冒险

uniform n. the distinctive clothing worn by members of the same organization such as the police, the army, etc. 军服，制服

uncomfortable adj. ill at ease, uneasy 不自在，不安的

rebuild v. to build again 重建

5 ．国王的士兵

爱德华经历了很多冒险，结交了新朋友，国王很高兴得知贝弗利上校的孩子们都还活着，而且过得都很好。但是时机对于国王查理二世来说还不恰当。克伦威尔的军队仍然很强大，到1651年秋天，国王的士兵不是死了，就是逃回苏格兰了。国王独自逃走了——没人知道去了哪儿。

爱德华穿着一个死去的圆颅党士兵的军服，秘密回到了新森林。他深夜到达农舍，把他的家人和帕布洛都吓坏了。然后他们听到了他的声音，立刻爱德华就被包围在弟弟和妹妹们的怀抱中了。

第二天一大早，爱德华骑马穿过森林去见赫瑟斯顿先生。他很高兴见到爱德华，听了爱德华带来的消息，他说道：

“所以，我们必须再多等一段时间，才能看到新的国王，而且我们必须仍然装作是支持克伦威尔的。我们会说你是去为克伦威尔而战的。你很聪明，知道穿着圆颅党士兵的军服回来——这会帮我们俩远离危险。”

有好几天的时间，克伦威尔的人都在森林里搜查国王。然后传来消息说国王现在在法国，于是最后士兵们都离开了森林。

爱德华重新当起了赫瑟斯顿先生的秘书。佩兴斯非常高兴又见到他，但是爱德华却感到不自在。现在他想告诉佩兴斯他爱她，还想告诉她父亲自己的姓氏的秘密。但是他还年轻，这两件事中哪一件他都不知道该怎么处理。

一天晚上，他单独和佩兴斯待在花园里。他们聊了一会儿他和国王一起的冒险经历，接着爱德华说：

“我离开的这段日子总是想起你。现在我又见到你了，我知道我必须说出来。我爱你，佩兴斯，我想永远和你在一起。”

佩兴斯转过脸去。“你救了我的命，我永远也不会忘记，爱德华，”她轻轻地说，“我知道你是我的朋友，我谢谢你这些好心的话。但是现在我还年轻，我必须跟我父亲说。”

爱德华不明白她的回答。她是什么意思？她到底是爱他，还是不爱他？

“你觉得你父亲会因为我只是个穷护林人而反对吗？”他开口问道。

就在这时，赫瑟斯顿先生来到花园叫他们。“爱德华，我正在找你呢。议会刚刚寄来一封信，看。”

信中说议会要把安伍德及其附属的土地分给赫瑟斯顿先生。爱德华的脸变得苍白，一时间说不出话来。

“我们明天骑马过去看看安伍德，我想重建那座房子。”赫瑟斯顿先生说。

“但是安伍德属于贝弗利家，”爱德华小心地说，“或许不是所有的孩子都在火中丧生了，如果他们中有些还活着……”

“那我当然会把安伍德还给他们。但是目前安伍德属于我，佩兴斯嫁人以后，它就属于她丈夫了。”

爱德华沉默了。他现在不能告诉赫瑟斯顿先生他的秘密了，也不能说他想娶他的女儿了。

那天夜里他很早就上床了，但却睡不着。“佩兴斯现在有钱了，”他想，“很多男人都会想娶她。而且我认为她不爱我。如果我说我是爱德华·贝弗利，我敢肯定议会会收回安伍德，而我将仍旧是一个穷护林人。我不能再待在这儿了，我要离开英国，去法国找国王。”

第二天清早，当其他所有人都还在睡觉的时候，爱德华离开了那所房子，骑马穿过森林回到了农舍。在那里他和汉弗莱还有妹妹们一起商量今后的计划。他们看到他这么不开心都很难过。

“现在也是艾丽斯和伊迪丝离开森林的时候了，”爱德华对汉弗莱说，“我和国王在北方的时候遇到了科宁厄姆一家，他们和爸爸很熟。他们会很乐意收留妹妹们并照顾她们的，她们在那里会过得好一些。而你，汉弗莱——不如和我一起走吧？”

“不，”汉弗莱说，“女孩们离开这儿会好一些，但是我留下来更好。帕布洛和我可以一起照看农场，而且，我也可以关注着安伍德发生的一切。总有一天你会回来的，谁知道那时候会发生什么呢？”

爱德华那天晚上就离开了，艾丽斯和伊迪丝哭得很伤心。那对他们每一个人来说都是个悲伤的时刻——是他们一起在森林中生活的结束。爱德华留给赫瑟斯顿先生一封信。“您对我一直很好，我很感谢您。”他写道。但是他没给佩兴斯留下只言片语。

赫瑟斯顿先生收到爱德华的信后，立刻骑马过来找汉弗莱，他也很难过。

“我所有的计划都出错了，”他告诉汉弗莱，“爱德华走了，我女儿很不开心。我知道你们是贝弗利家的孩子已经很久了。我想把佩兴斯嫁给爱德华。她爱他，但是她想先和我谈谈，因为她以为爱德华是个穷人。而我向议会要安伍德是因为我想重建那座房子，然后把它交给爱德华。你愿意帮我重建那座房子吗，汉弗莱？总有一天国王会回到英国，爱德华也会回来的。我想把安伍德给他准备好。”

*　*　*

爱德华离开了将近九年，在法国、荷兰和西班牙与法国军队一起作战。但是克伦威尔死后，1660年5月，查理二世回来成了英国的国王，当他骑马进入伦敦的时候，爱德华·贝弗利便随侍在他身边。

在伦敦城里的时光是快乐的。但是最高兴的时刻是新森林里的贝弗利家的孩子们终于又重新团聚了。

“我们农舍的农场现在很大了，”汉弗莱告诉爱德华，“赫瑟斯顿先生重建了安伍德，他说它是属于你的。他会很高兴再次见到你的。”

“那佩兴斯怎么样了？”艾丽斯问，“你还爱她吗，爱德华？你知道，她现在就在伦敦。”

“是的，有一天我在国王家的人群中看到她了，”爱德华说，“她比以前更漂亮了。我仍然爱她，但是我肯定她已经忘记我了。”

“你对她太不好了，”伊迪丝说，“你离开的时候她很不开心。但是她在这九年里谁也没嫁，很多男人都向她求过婚。所以我认为她还爱你。”

伊迪丝是对的。大约一年以后爱德华娶了佩兴斯，他们一起幸福地生活在安伍德。奥斯瓦尔德·帕特里奇去安伍德为爱德华工作。汉弗莱娶了一位朋友的女儿，买了一个更大的农场，把雅各布·阿米蒂奇的农舍给了帕布洛。艾丽斯和伊迪丝现在已经是漂亮姑娘了，她们嫁给了国王的士兵。到这里，我们就要和贝弗利一家说再见了。





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


Before Reading

1．Read the story introduction on the first page of the book. How much do you know now about the story? Complete the sentences with the right names.

Cromwell / the children / Jacob / the King

Cromwell / the children / Jacob / the King

1) ______ is in prison.

2) ______'s men have burnt______'s home.

3) ______ escaped and are hiding in the New Forest.

4) ______'s father fought for ______ and was killed.

5) In 1647 it was dangerous to be a friend of ______.

6) ______ is ______'s one true friend.

7) With ______'s help, ______ learn to live off the land.

2．What is going to happen in the story? Can you guess? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) King Charles is killed.

YES □／NO □

2) Cromwell's men find the Beverley children.

YES □／NO □

3) The Beverley children are always hungry.

YES □／NO □

4) Jacob Armitage dies.

YES □／NO □

5) Edward Beverley saves somebody's life.

YES □／NO □

6) Edward Beverley goes to fight for Cromwell.

YES □／NO □





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


While Reading

1．Read Chapter 1, and answer these questions.

Why

1) ... were the soldiers planning to burn Arnwood?

2) ... did Jacob visit the children every day?

3) ... did Edward agree to leave Arnwood?

4) ...did Edward want to fight Cromwell's soldiers?

5) ... was cooking and cleaning new work to the children?

6) ...did the soldiers search Jacob's cottage?

7) ...did Jacob tell the children to pretend to be ill?

8) ...did Jacob and the children have to cook two dinners?

2．Read Chapter 2, then complete these sentences with the right names.

1) ______ bought cottage clothes for the children to wear.

2) ______ learned to read and write.

3) ______ learned how to mend clothes.

4) ______ shot his first deer in May.

5) ______ sold some deer meat and bought a little cart.

6) ______ had to learn how to pull the cart behind him.

7) ______ loved the work on the farm.

8) ______ drove the cow away from her calf.

3．Read Chapter 3. Here are some untrue sentences about it. Change them into true sentences.

1) Alice was ill that winter and could not leave the cottage.

2) Humphrey needed a dog to help with the hunting.

3) Edward told Mr Hetherstone his name was Beverley.

4) Mr Hetherstone was one of the King's good friends.

5) Mr Hetherstone thought the burning of Arnwood was a good thing.

6) Oswald Partridge did not give Edward one of his puppies.

7) Mr Hetherstone saved Patience from the fire.

8) Edward wanted Mr Hetherstone's thanks.

4．Read Chapter 4. Who said this,and to whom? Who or what were they talking about?

1) 'We think he's dying.'

2) 'In London he tried to stop the murder.'

3) 'One day I shall fight against his murderers.'

4) 'Well, this is happy news!'

5) 'He cannot save you from the soldiers if they catch you killing the forest deer.'

6) 'He never listened to Parliament.'

7) 'I will pay you and you can help your family.'

8) 'We shall all be friends.'

9) 'I think the time is right for you to ride north and meet him.'

5．Before you read Chapter 5, can you guess what happens? Choose the best ending for these sentences.

1) Edward goes to fight for the King...

a) and is killed.

b) and comes home safely.

2) Patience loves Edward...

a) and she marries him.

b) but she doesn't marry him.

3) Mr Hetherstone knows that Edward is a Beverley...

a) but he tells no one.

b) and he tells Cromwell's men.

4) The Beverley children go to live in different places...

a) and never meet again.

b) and meet again in London.

5) King Charles Ⅱ rides into London...

a) many years later.

b) soon after Edward meets him.

6．Read Chapter 5, and join these halves of sentences.

1) Many of the King's soldiers were killed, ...

2) Edward told Patience that he loved her, ...

3) Parliament gave Arnwood to Mr Hetherstone, ...

4) Edward couldn't ask Patience to marry him, ...

5) Humphrey stayed at the farm with Pablo, ...

6) Patience had to wait for nine years...

7) but he did not understand her answer.

8) so he left England and went away to France.

9) before Edward came home and married her.

10) and Edward had to return secretly to the New Forest.

11) but his sisters went to live with friends in the north.

12) who planned to rebuild it and give it back to Edward.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


After Reading

1．Find these 15 words in the word search, and draw lines through them. The words go from left to right, and from top to bottom.

bucket, burn, climb, cottage, farm, flames, forest, Ladder, land, pot, pretend, save, search, smoke, stables

bucket, burn, climb, cottage, farm, flames, forest, Ladder, land, pot, pretend, save, search, smoke, stables

Now write down all the letters that don't have a line through them. Begin with the first line and go across each line to the end. You will have 29 letters, which will make a sentence of 5 words.

Now write down all the letters that don't have a line through them. Begin with the first line and go across each line to the end. You will have 29 letters, which will make a sentence of 5 words.

1) What is the sentence, who said it, and to whom?

2) Was it true?

3) Why did the person say it?

2．All these words come from the story. Put them into three groups, under these headings.

army

cow

gun

pig

soldier

bread

deer

horse

potatoes

sword

calf

eggs

meat

puppy

uniform

chickens

enemy

milk

salt

vegetables

3．Use the words below, and some of the words from your three lists above, to complete this passage.

making, caught, cleaned, cook, cooked, fight, fighting, hunt, planted, rode, worked

making, caught, cleaned, cook, cooked, fight, fighting, hunt, planted, rode, worked

The children all ______ hard. Every spring they ______ lots of different ______ in the fields. Alice ______ the house and learned how to ______, and Edith made oatmeal______and ______ it on the stones by the fire. She also looked after the ______ and went to get the ______ every morning.

Humphrey was clever at ______ things out of wood. One day he ______ a wild ______ and her new-born ______ in the forest, so then they had ______ to drink.

Edward learned to ______ the red ______ of the forest, but he always wanted to be a ______. One day he ______ away, with his father's ______ by his side, to ______ for the King. He came home wearing a dead Roundhead's______. After that he was away for years, ______ with the French ______.

4．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter _________.

1) Who are the people in this picture?

2) What has just happened in the story?

3) What happens next?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: ________________________

Caption:

5．What did Mr Hetherstone say to Patience when he got Edward's letter? Put their conversation in the right order and write in the speakers' names. Mr Hetherstone speaks first (number 3).

1) ______ 'I hope we will, child. I hope he'll be your husband one day. You love him, don't you?'

2) ______ 'Beverley? You mean the Beverleys of Arnwood?'

3) ______ 'Patience, I've just had a letter from Edward.'

4) ______ 'Oh Father, why didn't you tell him that? Now he's gone to France, and it's too late...'

5) ______ 'He's gone to fight for the King in France.'

6) ______ 'Yes,I do, Father. But are you happy for me to marry a poor forester?'

7) ______ 'Yes. But all my plans have gone wrong. I wanted to rebuild Arnwood and give it back to him.'

8) ______ 'From Edward? Why? Where has he gone?'

9) ______ 'He isn't a forester. His name's Edward Beverley.'

10) ______ 'Oh no! Oh, Father, we'll never see him again.'

6．What did you think about this story? Complete these sentences (you can use as many words as you want).

1) I liked/didn't like ______ because ______.

liked/didn't like

2) ______ was/were lucky because ______.

was/were

3) I felt sorry for ______ when ______.

4) I felt angry with ______ when ______.

京权图字 01-2006-3299

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2000

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

福尔摩斯探案故事 = Sherlock Holmes Short Stories／（英）道尔（Doyle, A. C.）著；（英）韦斯特（West, C.）改写；咸珊珊译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2007.7（2013.11 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

ISBN 978-7-5600-6817-6

Ⅰ．福…　Ⅱ．①道…②韦…③咸…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物②侦探小说—作品集—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第104933号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 周　晶

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2007年7月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-6817-6

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519

内容简介

我们一想起侦探，第一个想到的就是夏洛克·福尔摩斯。甚至在距离关于他的第一个故事已一百多年的今天，他仍然是我们心中最伟大的侦探。游客们仍然会到伦敦的贝克街去看他的公寓。有很多关于他的电影和图片——我们都知道他的样子，知道他穿什么衣服。

但是他从来就没存在过。他的故事仅仅是故事而已，那么我们为什么记住他了呢？

因为他喜欢抓罪犯。夏洛克·福尔摩斯追踪罪犯就像猎人追踪狐狸一样。他像猎犬和警犬一样，鼻子贴在地上——追踪罪犯到世界的尽头。罪犯可能试图藏匿——但只要夏洛克·福尔摩斯开始追踪，我们就知道他终会成功。

SHERLOCK HOLMES SHORT STORIES

When we think of a detective, we think first of Sherlock Holmes. Even now, more than a hundred years after the first story about him, he is still the greatest detective of all. Tourists still go to Baker Street, in London, to see the place where he had his flat. There are films about him, pictures of him — we all know what he looked like, we all know what kind of clothes he wore.

And yet he never existed. The stories about him are just stories. So, why do we remember him?

It is because he loves catching criminals. Sherlock Holmes chases the criminal as a hunter chases a fox. He is a bloodhound, a police dog, with his nose to the ground following the criminal to the end of the world. The criminal may try to hide — but when Sherlock Holmes has started the chase, we know that he will finish it with a 'kill'.

Sherlock HolmesShort Stories

Short Stories

福尔摩斯探案故事

The Speckled Band

有斑点的带子

1Helen's Story

Helen's Story

At the time of this story, I was still living at my friend Sherlock Holmes's flat in Baker Street in London. Very early one morning, a young woman, dressed in black, came to see us. She looked tired and unhappy, and her face was very white. 'I'm afraid! Afraid of death, Mr Holmes!' she cried. 'Please help me! I'm not thirty yet and look at my grey hair! I'm so afraid!'

'Just sit down and tell us your story,' said Holmes kindly.

'My name is Helen Stoner,' she began, 'and I live with my stepfather, Dr Grimesby Roylott, near a village in the country. His family was once very rich, but they had no money when my stepfather was born. So he studied to be a doctor, and went out to India. He met and married my mother there, when my sister Julia and I were very young. Our father was dead, you see.'

'Your mother had some money, perhaps?' asked Sherlock Holmes.

'Oh yes, mother had a lot of money, so my stepfather wasn't poor any more.'

'Tell me more about him, Miss Stoner,' said Holmes.

'Well, he's a violent man. In India he once got angry with his Indian servant and killed him! He had to go to prison because of that, and then we all came back to England. Mother died in an accident eight years ago. So my stepfather got all her money, but if Julia or I marry, he must pay us ￡250 every year.'

'And now you live with him in the country,' said Holmes.

'Yes, but he stays at home and never sees anybody, Mr Holmes!' answered Helen Stoner. 'He's more and more violent now, and sometimes has fights with the people from the village. Everybody's afraid of him now, and they run away when they see him. And they're also afraid of his Indian wild animals which run freely around the garden. A friend sends them to him from India. And the animals are not the only wild things in the garden; there are also gipsies. My stepfather likes these wild people, and they can come and go where they like. Poor Julia and I had very unhappy lives. We had no servants. They always left because they were afraid of my stepfather, and we had to do all the work in the house. Julia was only thirty when she died, and her hair was already grey, like my hair now.'

'When did she die?' asked Sherlock Holmes.

'She died two years ago, and that's why I'm here. We never met anybody in the country, but sometimes we visited some of my family who live near London. There Julia met a young man who asked to marry her. My stepfather agreed, but soon after this she died.' Miss Stoner put her hand over her eyes and cried for a minute.

Sherlock Holmes was listening with his eyes closed, but now he opened them and looked at Helen Stoner.

'Tell me everything about her death,' he said.

'I can remember it all very well. It was a terrible time!' she answered. 'Our three bedrooms are all downstairs. First there is my stepfather's room. Julia's room is next to his, and my room is next to Julia's. The rooms all have windows on the garden side of the house, and doors which open into the corridor. One evening our stepfather was smoking his strong Indian cigarettes in his room. Julia couldn't sleep because she could smell them in her room, so she came into my room to talk to me. Before she went back to bed, she said to me, "Helen, have you ever heard a whistle in the middle of the night?"

'I was surprised. "No," I said.

'"It's strange," she said. "Sometimes I hear a whistle, but I don't know where it comes from. Why don't you hear it?"

'I laughed and said, "I sleep better than you do." So Julia went to her room, and locked the door after her.'

'Why did you lock your doors?' asked Sherlock Holmes.

'We were afraid of the wild animals, and the gipsies,' she answered.

'Please go on,' said Holmes.

'I couldn't sleep that night. It was a very stormy night, with a lot of wind and rain. Suddenly I heard a woman's scream. It was my sister's voice. I ran into the corridor, and just then I heard a whistle, and a minute later the sound of falling metal. I didn't know what it was. I ran to my sister's door. She opened it and fell to the ground. Her face was white and afraid, and she was crying, "Help me, help me, Helen, I'm ill, I'm dying!" I put my arms around her, and she cried out in a terrible voice: "Helen! Oh my God, Helen! It was the band! The speckled band!" She wanted to say more, but she couldn't. I called my stepfather, who tried to help her, but we could do nothing. And so my dear, dear sister died.'

'Are you sure about the whistle and the sound of falling metal?' asked Holmes.

'I think so,' answered Helen. 'But it was a very wild, stormy night. Perhaps I made a mistake. The police couldn't understand why my sister died. Her door was locked and nobody could get into her room. They didn't find any poison in her body. And what was "the speckled band"? Gipsies wear something like that round their necks. I think she died because she was so afraid, but I don't know what she was afraid of. Perhaps it was the gipsies. What do you think, Mr Holmes?'

Holmes thought for a minute. 'Hmm,' he said. 'That is a difficult question. But please go on.'

'That was two years ago,' Helen Stoner said. 'I have been very lonely without my sister, but a month ago a dear friend asked me to marry him. My stepfather has agreed, and so we're going to marry soon. But two days ago I had to move to my sister's old bedroom, because some men are mending my bedroom wall, and last night I heard that whistle again! I ran out of the house immediately and came to London to ask for your help. Please help me, Mr Holmes! I don't want to die like Julia!'

'We must move fast,' said Holmes. 'If we go to your house today, can we look at these rooms? But your stepfather must not know.'

'He's in London today, so he won't see you. Oh thank you, Mr Holmes, I feel better already.'

grey adj. of a colour intermediate between black and white 灰白的

grey

stepfather n. a man who is married to one's mother after the divorce of one's parents or the death of one's father 继父

stepfather

violent adj. likely to attack, hurt, or kill other people 狂暴的

violent

servant n. a person employed to perform duties for others, especially in a house on domestic duties or as a personal attendant 仆人

servant

gipsy n. a member of travelling people with dark skin and hair, speaking a language related to Hindi, and traditionally living by itinerant trade and fortune telling 吉普赛人

gipsy

terrible adj. extremely bad, serious, or unpleasant 可怕的

terrible

corridor n. a long passage from which doors lead into rooms 走廊

corridor

whistle n. a clear, high-pitched sound made by forcing breath through a small hole between partly closed lips, or between one's teeth 口哨

whistle

lock v. to fasten with a lock 锁,锁上

lock

stormy adj. affected or disturbed by a storm 有暴风雨的

stormy

suddenly adv. quickly or unexpectedly 突然

suddenly

scream n. a screaming cry or sound 尖叫声

scream

poison n. a substance which causes death or harm when introduced into or absorbed by a living organism 毒药

poison

mend v. to restore to a sound condition 修理，修补

mend

1．海伦的故事

故事发生的时候，我还住在我的朋友夏洛克·福尔摩斯在伦敦贝克街的公寓里。一天大清早，一位穿黑衣的年轻女人来见我们。她看起来疲惫而忧郁，脸色苍白。“我害怕！害怕死，福尔摩斯先生！”她哭道，“请帮帮我！我还不到30岁，但是看看我灰白的头发！我太害怕了！”

“先坐下，给我们讲讲你的事。”福尔摩斯温和地说。

“我叫海伦·斯托纳，”她开始说道，“我和继父格里姆斯比·罗伊洛特医生住在乡下，在一个村子附近。他家原来很富有，但是我继父出生的时候他们已经没有钱了。所以他学医并且去了印度。他在那里遇到了我母亲并和她结了婚，那时候我姐姐朱莉娅和我还很小。你知道，我们的父亲死了。”

“你母亲大概有些钱吧？”夏洛克·福尔摩斯问道。

“噢，是的，我母亲有很多钱，所以继父从此摆脱了穷困。”

“再多给我讲些他的情况，斯托纳小姐。”福尔摩斯说。

“哦，他是个粗暴的人。在印度的时候，他曾经跟他的印度仆人生气，竟然把那个人杀了！他为此坐了牢，后来我们都回到了英国。妈妈八年前死于一次事故。所以继父得到了她所有的钱，但是如果朱莉娅或者我结婚的话，他必须每年付给我们250英镑。”

“现在你们和他住在乡下。”福尔摩斯说。

“是的，但是他总待在家里，从来不见任何人，福尔摩斯先生！”海伦·斯托纳回答，“他现在越来越粗暴了，有时还和村里的人打架。现在所有的人都害怕他，见到他就跑开。他们也害怕他养的那些印度野兽，那些野兽在花园里乱跑，那是他的一个朋友从印度送来的。花园里不光有野兽，还有吉普赛人。继父喜欢这些野蛮人，他们可以在那儿自由来去。可怜的朱莉娅和我过得非常不开心。我们没有仆人。他们总是因为害怕我继父而离开，我们只好自己做家务。朱莉娅死的时候才30岁，她的头发已经灰白了，就像我现在的头发一样。”

“她什么时候死的？”夏洛克·福尔摩斯问。

“她是两年前死的，我就是为这件事来的。我们从来不和村里的人交往，但是有时候我们会去拜访住在伦敦附近的一些亲戚。在那里朱莉娅遇到了一个年轻人，他想娶她。我继父同意了，但是不久之后她就死了。”斯托纳小姐捂着眼睛哭了一会儿。

夏洛克·福尔摩斯一直闭着眼睛听，但是现在他睁开眼睛看着海伦·斯托纳。

“告诉我跟她的死有关的所有事情。”他说。

“所有的事情我都记得很清楚。那个时候真可怕！”她回答，“我们的三个卧室都在楼下。第一间是我继父的房间。他的隔壁就是朱莉娅的房间，我的房间在朱莉娅的隔壁。三个房间的窗户都在朝着花园的那边，而门在走廊的那一侧。一天晚上，继父在他的房间里抽印度雪茄，味道很呛人。朱莉娅睡不着，因为她在房间里能闻到烟味，所以她来到我的房间和我聊天。她回去睡觉之前跟我说：‘海伦，你半夜里听到过口哨声吗？’”

“我很吃惊。‘没听到过。’”我说。

“‘很奇怪，’她说，‘有时候我会听到口哨声，但是我不知道是从哪儿传来的。你为什么听不到呢？’”

“我笑了，说：‘我比你睡得好呗。’朱莉娅回她的房间去了，并且锁上了门。”

“你们为什么要锁门呢？”夏洛克·福尔摩斯问道。

“因为我们害怕那些野生动物，还有那些吉普赛人。”她回答。

“请接着说。”福尔摩斯说。

“那天晚上我无法入睡。那是个暴风雨之夜，外面风雨交加。突然，我听到一个女人的尖叫。那是我姐姐的声音。我冲进走廊，就在那时我听到了口哨声，一分钟后又听到了金属落地的声音。我不知道那是什么东西发出的。我跑到姐姐的房间门口，她打开门后就倒在地上。她的脸煞白，充满了恐惧，还哭喊着：‘救救我，救救我，海伦，我难受，我要死了！’我抱着她，她用可怕的声音哭喊：‘海伦！噢，我的上帝，海伦！是那条带子！那条有斑点的带子！’她想再说点儿什么，却什么也说不出来了。我叫了继父，他试图救她，但是我们什么也做不了。我最亲爱的姐姐就这么死了。”

“你确定听到了口哨声和金属落地的声音？”福尔摩斯问道。

“我想是的，”海伦回答，“但那天晚上有很大的暴风雨。或许我弄错了。警察没有弄清我姐姐的死因。她的门锁着，没人能进入她的房间。他们也没在她身上发现中毒的迹象。而且‘有斑点的带子’是什么呢？吉普赛人脖子上戴着一种类似的东西。我想她是凶恐惧而死，但是我不知道她害怕的是什么。可能是那些吉普赛人。你怎么看呢，福尔摩斯先生？”

福尔摩斯想了一会儿。“唔，”他说，“那可是个难题。不过请继续说下去。”

“那是两年之前的事了，”海伦·斯托纳说，“没有了姐姐，我一直过得很孤独，但是一个月之前，一位亲爱的朋友向我求婚。我继父也同意了，所以我们很快就要结婚了。但是两天前我不得不搬到我姐姐原来的卧室里，因为一些人正在修补我卧室的墙，而昨晚我又听到了那个口哨声！我立刻跑出了那座房子，来伦敦寻求你的帮助。请你帮帮我，福尔摩斯先生！我不想和朱莉娅一样死去！”

“我们必须赶快行动，”福尔摩斯说，“如果我们今天去你家，我们可以看看那些房间吗？但是不能让你继父知道。”

“他今天在伦敦，所以他不会见到你们的。噢，谢谢你，福尔摩斯先生，我已经感觉好些了。”

2Holmes and Watson Visit the House

Holmes and Watson Visit the House

Holmes went out for the morning, but he came back at lunch-time. We then went by train into the country, and took a taxi to Dr Roylott's house. 'You see,' said Holmes to me, 'our dangerous friend Roylott needs the girls' money, because he only has ￡750 a year from his dead wife. I found that out this morning. But the gypsies, the whistle, the band — they are more difficult to understand, but I think I have an answer.'

When we arrived, Helen Stoner showed us the three bedrooms. We saw her room first.

'Why are they mending your bedroom wall?' asked Holmes. 'There's nothing wrong with it.'

'You're right,' she said. 'I think it was a plan to move me into my sister's room.'

'Yes,' said Holmes. We went into Julia's room, and Holmes looked at the windows carefully.

'Nobody could come in from outside,' he said. Then he looked round the room. 'Why is that bell-rope there, just over the bed?'

'My stepfather put it there two years ago. It's for calling a servant, but Julia and I never used it because we didn't have any servants. He also put in that air-vent on the wall between his room and this one.'

Holmes pulled the rope. 'But it doesn't work,' he said. 'How strange! And it's just over the air-vent. That also is interesting. Why have an air-vent on an inside wall? Air-vents are usually on outside walls.'

Then we went into Dr Roylott's room. Holmes saw a large metal box near the wall.

'My stepfather keeps business papers in there,' said Helen.

'Does he keep a cat in there too?' asked Holmes. 'Look!' There was some milk on a plate on top of the box. 'Now, Miss Stoner,' he said, 'I think your life is in danger. Tonight my friend Watson and I must spend the night in your sister's room, where you are sleeping at the moment.'

Helen Stoner and I looked at him in surprise.

'Yes, we must,' he went on. 'We'll take a room in a hotel in the village. When your stepfather goes to bed, put a light in your sister's bedroom window and leave it open. Then go into your old room and we'll get into your sister's room through the window. We'll wait for the sound of the whistle and the falling metal.'

'How did my sister die, Mr Holmes? Do you know? Please tell me!' said Helen. She put her hand on Sherlock Holmes's arm.

'I must find out more before I tell you, Miss Stoner. Now goodbye, and don't be afraid,' replied Sherlock Holmes.

We walked to the village, and Holmes said to me, 'Tonight will be dangerous, Watson. Roylott is a very violent man.'

'But if I can help, Holmes, I shall come with you,' I said.

'Thank you, Watson. I'll need your help. Did you see the bell-rope, and the air-vent? I knew about the air-vent before we came. Of course there is a hole between the two rooms. That explains why Helen's sister could smell Dr Roylott's cigarette.'

'My dear Holmes! How clever of you!' I cried.

'And did you see the bed? It's fixed to the floor. She can't move it. It must stay under the rope, which is near the air-vent.'

'Holmes!' I cried. 'I begin to understand! What a terrible crime!'

'Yes, this doctor is a very clever man. But we can stop him, I think, Watson.'

dangerous adj. able or likely to cause harm or injury 危险的

dangerous

bell-rope n. a long piece of thin rope, fixed to a wall; you pull it to ring a bell 拉铃绳

bell-rope

air-vent n. a hole, usually on an outside wall, to bring air into a room 通风口

air-vent

at the moment right now 现在，此刻

at the moment

fixed adj. if something is fixed, it is not possible to move it 固定的

fixed

2．福尔摩斯和华生来访

福尔摩斯出去了一个上午，但在午饭的时候回来了。然后我们乘火车到乡下，坐出租马车到了罗伊洛特医生的家。“你看，”福尔摩斯对我说，“我们危险的朋友罗伊洛特需要姑娘们的钱，因为他每年只能从他死去的妻子那里得到750英镑。这是我今天上午发现的。但是吉普赛人、口哨声、带子——这些比较难以理解，但我想我有答案了。”

我们到达之后，海伦·斯托纳领我们看了三个卧室。我们先看了她的卧室。

“他们为什么要修补你卧室的墙？”福尔摩斯问，“墙没有什么问题啊。”

“你说的对，”她说，“我想这是为了让我搬到我姐姐的房间。”

“是的，”福尔摩斯说。我们走进朱莉娅的房间，福尔摩斯仔细查看了窗户。

“没人能从外面进来，”他说。然后他环顾了一下房间。“那个拉铃的绳子为什么安在床的上方？”

“两年前我继父把它安到那儿的，说是用来叫仆人，但朱莉娅和我从来都没用过，因为我们根本没有仆人。他还在他的房间和这个房间相接的墙上开了那个通风口。”

福尔摩斯拉了拉绳子。“可是这不管用啊，”他说，“真奇怪！而且它正好挂在通风口那儿。那通风口也很有意思。为什么在内墙上开通风口呢？通风口通常是开在外墙上的。”

之后我们又进了罗伊洛特医生的房间。福尔摩斯看到墙边有个大金属箱子。

“我继父在那里面放文件。”海伦说。

“他还在那里面养了一只猫吗？”福尔摩斯问，“看！”箱子上面有个盛着牛奶的盘子。“现在，斯托纳小姐，”他说，“我想你的生命处在危险中。今晚我的朋友华生和我必须在你姐姐的房间里过夜，就是你现在睡觉的地方。”

海伦·斯托纳和我惊奇地看着他。

“是的，我们必须这么做，”他继续说，“我们会在村里的旅馆找一个房间。你继父上床睡觉之后，请你在你姐姐房间的窗口放一盏灯，把窗户开着。然后你到原来的房间睡觉，我们会从窗户进入你姐姐的房间，等着口哨声和金属落地的声音。”

“我姐姐是怎么死的？福尔摩斯先生，你知道吗？请告诉我！”海伦说着，抓住了夏洛克·福尔摩斯的胳膊。

“我必须了解更多的情况才能告诉你，斯托纳小姐。现在再见，不要害怕。”夏洛克·福尔摩斯回答。

我们向村子走去，福尔摩斯对我说：“今晚将会很危险，华生。罗伊洛特是个很凶残的人。”

“但是如果我可以帮你，福尔摩斯，我想和你一起去。”我说。

“谢谢你，华生。我需要你的帮助。刚才你看到那个拉铃绳和通风口了吗？我们来之前我就知道通风口的事了。两个房间之间肯定有个洞。这就解释了海伦的姐姐为什么能够闻到罗伊洛特医生的雪茄烟味。”

“我亲爱的福尔摩斯！你真聪明！”我叫道。

“你看到那床了吗？它是固定在地板上的，她不能移动它 。床只能在绳子下面，那里接近通风口。”

“福尔摩斯！”我叫道，“我开始懂了！多可怕的罪行！”

“是的，那医生是个很聪明的人。但我想我们可以阻止他，华生。”

3Death in the Night

Death in the Night

That night we went back to the house. When we saw Helen Stoner's light, Holmes and I got in quietly through the window. Then we waited silently in the middle bedroom in the dark. We waited for three hours and did not move. Suddenly we saw a light and heard a sound from Dr Roylott's room. But nothing happened, and again we waited in the dark. Then there was another sound, a very quiet sound...Immediately Holmes jumped up and hit the bell-rope hard.

'Can you see it, Watson?' he shouted. But I saw nothing. There was a quiet whistle. We both looked up at the air-vent, and suddenly we heard a terrible cry in the next room. Then the house was silent again.

'What does it mean?' I asked. My voice was shaking.

'It's finished,' answered Holmes. 'Let's go and see.'

We went into Dr Roylott's room. The metal box was open. Roylott was sitting on a chair, and his eyes were fixed on the air-vent. Round his head was a strange, yellow speckled band. He was dead.

'The band! The speckled band!' said Holmes very quietly. The band moved and began to turn its head. 'Be careful, Watson! It's a snake, an Indian snake — and its poison can kill very quickly,' Holmes cried. 'Roylott died immediately. We must put the snake back in its box.' Very, very carefully, Holmes took the snake and threw it into the metal box.

'But how did you know about the snake, Holmes?' I asked.

'At first, Watson, I thought that it was the gipsies. But then I understood. I thought that perhaps something came through the air-vent, down the bell-rope and on to the bed. Then there was the milk — and of course, snakes drink milk. It was easy for the Doctor to get Indian animals. And because he was a doctor, he knew that this snake's poison is difficult to find in a dead body. So every night he put the snake through the air-vent, and it went down the bell-rope onto the bed. Of course, nobody must see the snake, so every night he whistled to call it back. The sound of metal falling was the door of the metal box, which was the snake's home. Perhaps the snake came through the air-vent many times before it killed Julia. But in the end it killed her. And Helen, too, nearly died because of this snake.

'But tonight, when I hit the snake on the rope, it was angry and went back through the air-vent. And so it killed the Doctor. I'm not sorry about that.'

Soon after this Helen Stoner married her young man and tried to forget the terrible deaths of her sister and stepfather. But she never really forgot the speckled band.

3．深夜之死

当天晚上我们回到那所房子。看到海伦·斯托纳的灯亮起，福尔摩斯和我悄悄地从窗户进去。然后我们在中间的房间里静静地摸黑等着。我们等了3个小时，一动也没动。突然，我们看到一些亮光，听到罗伊洛特医生的房间里传来一点儿动静。但是什么事也没发生，我们继续在黑暗中等待。然后又有一个声音响起来，一个非常轻的声音……福尔摩斯立即跳起来，使劲抽打拉铃绳。

“你能看见吗，华生？”他喊道。但是我什么也没看见。这时响起一个轻轻的口哨声。我们都抬头看向通风口，突然听到隔壁房间传来一声惨叫。然后房子又归于寂静了。

“这意味着什么？”我问。我的声音在颤抖。

“结束了，”福尔摩斯回答，“我们去看看。”

我们走进罗伊洛特医生的房间。金属箱子敞开着。罗伊洛特正坐在一把椅子上，眼睛盯着通风口。他的头上缠着一根奇怪的、有黄色斑点的带子。他死了。

“带子！有斑点的带子！”福尔摩斯轻声说道。带子动了，开始转动它的头。“小心，华生！这是一条蛇，一条印度的蛇——它的毒可以让人倾刻毙命，”福尔摩斯喊道，“罗伊洛特被攻击后立刻就死了。我们必须把蛇放回箱子里。”福尔摩斯非常小心地拿起蛇，把它扔回金属箱子里。

“但你是怎么知道有这条蛇的呢，福尔摩斯？”我问。

“一开始，华生，我以为是吉普赛人干的。但是后来我明白了。我想可能是什么东西从通风口进来，顺着拉铃绳一直到床上。然后我们看到了牛奶——当然蛇喝牛奶。这位医生很容易弄到印度的动物。而且因为他是医生，他知道这种蛇毒很难在死尸上被发现。所以每天晚上他把蛇放到通风口那里，让它顺着拉铃绳爬到床上。当然不能有人看到这条蛇，所以每天晚上他吹口哨把它叫回去。金属落下的声音是金属箱子的盖被关上时发出的，蛇一直被关在那里。在杀死朱莉娅之前，它可能已经从通风口下来过很多次了。但是最后它终于杀死了她。海伦也差点儿死于这条蛇之口。

“但是今晚，我抽打绳子上的蛇，把它激怒了，它又从排气孔回去，杀死了医生。我并不为此感到抱歉。”

之后，海伦·斯托纳很快和向她求婚的年轻人结了婚，她尽力想忘掉姐姐和继父的惨死，但是她永远也没有真正忘记那条有斑点的带子。

A Scandal in Bohemia

波希米亚丑闻

1The King's Mistake

The King's Mistake

For Sherlock Holmes, there was only one woman in the world. He did not love her, because he never loved women. But after their meeting he never forgot her. Her name was Irene Adler.

One night in March I visited my old friend at his home in Baker Street. I was married by now, so I did not often see him.

'Come in, Watson,' he said. 'Sit down. I'm happy to see you, because I've got something to show you. What do you think of this? It arrived in the last post.' It was a letter, with no date, name or address. It said:

'Tonight someone will visit you, to talk about some very secret business. You have helped other important people, and you can, we hope, help us. Be in your room at 7.45 p.m. '

'The paper — what do you think about the paper?' asked Holmes.

I tried to think like Holmes. 'It's expensive, so this person is rich. It's strange paper.'

'Yes, it's not English. If you look at it in the light, you can see that it was made in Bohemia. And a German, I think, wrote the letter. Ah, here comes our man now.' We could hear the horses in the street.

'Shall I leave, Holmes?' I asked.

'No, no, I need your help. This will be interesting,' my friend answered. There was a knock at the door.

'Come in!' called Holmes.

A tall, strong man came into the room. He was wearing expensive clothes, and a mask over his face.

'You can call me Count von Kramm. I come from Bohemia,' he said. 'My business is most important. Before I tell you about it, do you agree to keep it a secret?'

'I do,' we said together.

'A very important person, who belongs to a royal family, has sent me to ask for your help,' he went on. 'I wear a mask because nobody must know who that person is. I must explain how important this business is. If you cannot help, there will be difficulty and trouble for one of the most important families in Europe — and perhaps a very big scandal. I am talking about the famous House of Ormstein, Kings of Bohemia.'

'I know, Your Majesty,' said Holmes. He quietly smoked his cigarette.

The man jumped up from his chair. 'What!' he cried. 'How do you know who I am?' Then he pulled the mask off his face and threw it on the ground. 'You are right. Why do I hide it? I am the King. I am Wilhelm von Ormstein, King of Bohemia. I came to see you myself because I could not ask another person to tell my story. It must be a secret. You understand?'

'Very well. Go on,' said Holmes. He closed his eyes and listened.

'Five years ago I met a woman called Irene Adler. We...'

'Ah,' said Holmes, 'Irene Adler, born in 1850, singer, lives in London, a very beautiful woman, I hear ...' He looked at the King. 'You and she...You loved her, for a while, and then left her. But before you left her, you wrote her some letters perhaps. And now you want to get these letters back.'

'That's right.'

'Did you marry her?'

'No.'

'If she asks you for money and shows you the letters, you can say that you didn't write them.'

'But Mr Holmes, she also has my photograph.'

'You can say that you didn't give her a photograph.'

'We were both in the photograph.'

'Oh dear. That was a mistake, Your Majesty.'

'I know. I was stupid...but I was very young!'

'You must get the photograph back. Can you steal it from her house?'

'I have tried five times but my men couldn't find it. What can I do?'

Holmes laughed. 'This is very interesting. What does she plan to do with the photograph?'

'Soon I am going to marry Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, daughter of the King of Scandinavia. You know, of course, that we are two of the most important royal families in Europe. Clotilde will never marry me if she learns that I have been a...friend of Irene Adler. You do not know Irene Adler. She's a beautiful woman, but she can be as hard as a man. She was angry when I left her, and so she doesn't want me to marry another woman. I know that she will send this photograph to the Saxe-Meningen family, and then there will be a terrible scandal. We must find the photograph before she sends it!'

'I am sure that we will find it,' said Holmes. 'You are, of course, staying in London? I will write to you to tell you what happens. And, the money...?'

The King put a large heavy bag on the table. 'I must have that photograph,' he said. 'There is one thousand pounds here. lf you need more, you must ask at once. The money is not important.'

'And the young woman's address?' asked Holmes.

'Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St John's Wood, London.'

'Good night, Your Majesty,' said Holmes. 'I hope to have some good news for you soon.' The King left, and Holmes turned to me. 'And good night, Watson. Please come back tomorrow at three o'clock in the afternoon.'

by now until now 到如今

by now

expensive adj. costing a lot of money 昂贵的

expensive

mask n. a covering for all or part of the face, worn as a disguise, for protection or for theatrical effect 面具

mask

royal adj. relating to or having the status of a king or queen or a member of their family 王室的，皇家的

royal

Your Majesty words that you say when you speak to a king or queen 陛下

Your Majesty

for a while for a short period of time 一段时间

for a while

photograph n. a picture made with a camera, in which an image is focused onto film and then made visible and permanent by chemical treatment 照片

photograph

1．国王的错误

对于夏洛克·福尔摩斯来说，世界上只有一个女人。他不爱她，因为他从没爱过任何女人。但在那次交锋之后他从未忘记她。她叫艾琳·阿德勒。

3月的一个晚上，我来到这位老朋友在贝克街的家拜访他，如今我已经结婚，所以不经常见到他。

“快进来，华生，”他说，“请坐。很高兴见到你，因为我有东西要给你看。你对这个怎么看？这是跟上一次邮件送来的。”那是一封信，没有日期、名字和地址。信里说：

“今晚有人会上门拜访，讨论一些非常机密的事情。你帮助过其他重要人物，希望你也能帮助我们。晚上7点45分请在房间等。”

“这种纸——你觉得这种纸怎么样？”福尔摩斯问。

我尽量像福尔摩斯一样思考。“它很贵，所以这个人很有钱。这是种奇怪的纸。”

“对，这不是英国的纸。如果对着光，你会看出它是波希米亚产的。而且，我想写这封信的人是个德国人。啊，找我们的人来了。”我们听见街上传来车马的声音。

“我该离开吗，福尔摩斯？”我问。

“不，不，我需要你的帮助。这会很有趣的。”我的朋友回答。这时响起敲门声。

“进来！”福尔摩斯大声说。

一个高大强壮的男人走进房间。他衣饰华贵，脸上戴了一个面具。

“你可以叫我冯·克拉姆伯爵。我从波希米亚来，”他说，“我的事情非常重要。在我告诉你们之前，你们能不能答应保守秘密？”

“我会的。”我们同时说道。

“一位皇家要人派我来寻求你的帮助，”他接着说，“我戴着面具是因为不能让任何人知道那个人是谁。我必须解释一下这件事有多么重要。如果你不能帮忙，欧洲最重要的家族之一将会遇到困难和麻烦——甚至可能是一桩很大的丑闻。我说的是著名的奥姆斯坦家族，波希米亚皇室。”

“我知道，陛下。”福尔摩斯说完，安静地抽着烟。

那个人从椅子上跳起来。“什么！”他叫道，“你怎么知道我是谁？”然后他把面具从脸上扯下来，扔到地上。“你说对了。我为什么要遮遮掩掩呢？我就是国王本人。我是威廉·冯·奥姆斯坦，波希米亚的国王。我亲自来找你是因为我不能让别人来讲这件事。这必须 保密。你明白吗？”

“非常明白。接着说。”福尔摩斯说。他闭上眼睛听着。

“五年前我遇到一个叫艾琳·阿德勒的女人。我们……”

“啊，”福尔摩斯说，“艾琳·阿德勒，生于1850年，歌唱家，住在伦敦，一个非常漂亮的女人，我听说……”他看了看国王。“你和她……你有一段时间很爱她，后来离开了她。但是在你离开之前，你可能给她写了些信。现在你想要回这些信。”

“是这样的。”

“你和她结婚了吗？”

“没有。”

“如果她拿那些信向你要钱，你可以说那不是你写的。”

“但是福尔摩斯先生，她还有我的照片。”

“你可以说你没有给过她照片。”

“我们俩都在照片里。”

“噢，天呐。那是个错误，陛下。”

“我知道。我很愚蠢……但是那时候我太年轻！”

“你必须把照片拿回来。你不能从她的房子里偷出来吗？”

“我已经试了五次，但是我的手下找不到照片。我该怎么办呢？”

福尔摩斯笑了。“这可太有趣了。她想怎么处理那照片？”

“我很快就要和斯堪的纳维亚国王的女儿克洛蒂尔德·洛思曼·冯·萨克斯-门宁根结婚了。你当然知道我们是欧洲最重要的两个皇室。如果克洛蒂尔德知道我曾经是艾琳·阿德勒的……朋友，她绝不会嫁给我。你不了解艾琳·阿德勒。她是个漂亮的女人，但是她能和男人一样冷酷无情。我离开的时候她很生气，所以她不想让我娶另一个女人。我知道她想把照片寄给萨克斯-门宁根家族，然后就会有可怕的丑闻。我们必须在她寄出那张照片之前找到它！”

“我相信我们肯定会找到的，”福尔摩斯说，“你现在一定住在伦敦吧？我会写信告诉你事情的进展。另外，钱……？”

国王把一个沉重的大袋子放到桌子上。“我必须拿到那张照片，”他说，“这是1000英镑。如果你还需要更多，一定马上跟我说。钱不重要。”

“还有那个年轻女人的地址？”福尔摩斯问。

“伦敦圣约翰伍德，瑟芬泰恩大街布里奥尼公寓。”

“晚安，陛下，”福尔摩斯说，“我希望很快会有好消息给你。”国王走了，福尔摩斯转过身对我说：“晚安，华生。请明天下午3点再回来。”

2A Servant Finds Out

A Servant Finds Out

When I arrived the next day, Holmes was not there, so I waited in his room. At four o'clock the door opened, and a very strange servant came in. He wore old, dirty clothes, and I had to look very hard before I saw that it was my old friend.

'Holmes!' I cried. 'Where have you been?'

'I've had a very good day,' he replied with a smile. 'I've been outside Miss Irene Adler's house. Servants are always happy to talk, and so I have heard a lot about the young woman. For example, she has a good-looking man friend called Godfrey Norton, a lawyer, who often visits her. Now why? If he's her lawyer, perhaps she's already given him the photograph. But if he loves her, she won't show him the photograph.'

'Most interesting, Holmes!' I said.

'While I was there, Mr Norton himself suddenly arrived. I watched them through the windows. When he left, he jumped into a taxi. "To the church of St Monica, as fast as you can!" he shouted. Two minutes later Miss Adler ran out of her house, jumped into another taxi and called, "To the church of St Monica, quickly!" I couldn't miss this, Watson, so I jumped into a third taxi. When I arrived, I went into the church. Godfrey Norton looked round and saw me. "Thank God!" he shouted. "Come here quickly!" "Why?" I asked. "Come on, man, we need you!" And so I helped Godfrey Norton to marry Irene Adler. They needed a witness, and a servant from the street was better than nobody.'

'So she's married him! What shall we do now?' I asked.

'Well, tonight, my dear Watson, I need your help. Will you do what I ask? Without questions?'

'Of course, Holmes, if you think that it's important,' I answered.

'Later, we'll go to Briony Lodge. Irene Adler, or Irene Norton, will arrive home at seven o'clock, and she will ask me to go into the house. You must wait outside near the sitting-room window, and when it opens, watch me inside. When I hold up my hand, throw this thing into the room and shout "Fire!"'

I took the small thing out of his hand. 'What is it, Holmes?' I asked.

'It's a smoke-stick. The room will very quickly be full of smoke. After that, wait for me at the corner of the street.'

'Right, I'll do what you want,' I said.

witness n. a person who sees an event take place 证人

witness

smoke-stick n. a stick that emits dense smoke as it explodes 烟雾棒

smoke-stick

2．仆人的发现

我第二天去的时候，福尔摩斯不在，于是我在他房间里等。4点钟，门开了，一个奇怪的仆人走进来。他穿着又旧又脏的衣服，我很费劲才认出那是我的老朋友。

“福尔摩斯！”我喊道，“你去哪儿了？”

“我这一天过得不错，”他微笑着回答，“我去了艾琳·阿德勒小姐家外面。仆人们总是喜欢聊天，所以我听到了很多关于那个年轻女人的事情。比如，她有个英俊的男性朋友叫戈弗雷·诺顿，是个律师，他经常拜访她。这说明什么呢？如果他是她的律师，她可能已经把照片给他了，但是如果他爱她，她是不会给他看照片的。”

“非常有趣，福尔摩斯！”我说。

“我在那儿的时候，诺顿先生本人突然来了。我透过窗户看到他们。他离开的时候跳进了一辆出租马车。‘去圣莫妮卡教堂，越快越好！’他大声说。两分钟之后，阿德勒小姐跑出来，跳进另一辆出租马车，喊道：‘去圣莫妮卡教堂，快点儿！’我可不能错过这个机会，华生，于是我也跳进一辆出租马车。到了之后，我走进教堂。戈弗雷·诺顿先生环顾四周，看到了我。‘感谢上帝！’他大声说，‘快到这里来！’‘做什么？’我问。‘快来，伙计，我们需要你！’就这样我帮助戈弗雷·诺顿和艾琳·阿德勒完成了婚礼。他们需要一个见证人，从街上拉个仆人总比没有见证人好。”

“那么她嫁给他了！我们现在该做什么？”我问。

“哦，今晚，我亲爱的华生，我需要你的帮助。你能不问问题，只按照我说的做吗？”

“当然了，福尔摩斯，如果你认为那很重要。”我回答。

“稍晚一点儿，我们会到布里奥尼公寓去。艾琳·阿德勒，或者说艾琳·诺顿会在7点钟到家，然后她会让我到她家里去。你必须在外面等着，就在客厅的窗户附近，当窗户打开的时候，要留意看着里面的我。我一举起手，你就把这个扔进屋子并且喊：‘着火了！’”

我从他手里接过一个小东西。“这是什么，福尔摩斯？”我问。

“是烟雾棒。屋子里很快会充满烟雾。然后你在街角等着我。”

“好的，我会照你说的做。”我说。

3Fire!

Fire!

That evening Holmes again wore different clothes, and a large, black hat. But it was not just the clothes that were different. He changed his face, his hair — everything. He was a different man.

We walked together to Serpentine Avenue. Outside the house there were a lot of people who were smoking, laughing and talking. Holmes and I walked up and down in front of the house.

'You see,' said Holmes to me, 'I think she doesn't want her new husband to see the photograph. But where is it? At her bank? No. Women like to keep important things themselves. I'm sure it's in her house.'

'But the King's men tried to find it!' I said.

'Yes, but they didn't know where to look!' said Holmes.

'But how will you know?' I asked.

'I won't look. She'll show me. She'll have to.'

Just then a taxi arrived. One of the men in the street ran to open the door, then another man pushed him. Other men were also pushing and shouting, and a fight began. Irene Norton was in the middle of it, but Sherlock Holmes ran to help her. Then suddenly he fell to the ground, with blood running down his face. Irene Norton hurried to her front door, but she looked back. 'How kind of him to help me! Is the poor man hurt?' she called.

'He's dead,' cried some voices.

'No, he's only hurt,' cried others.

'Bring him into the sitting-room,' she said.

Some people carried Holmes into the house. I waited outside the window and watched. I saw how beautiful Irene Norton was. Then Holmes put up his hand, and I threw the smoke-stick into the room. Immediately the people in the street and in the house all began to shout 'Fire!' very loudly. The house was full of smoke. I walked away, and ten minutes later Holmes came to meet me.

'Well done, Watson,' he said.

'Have you got the photograph?' I asked.

'I know where it is. She showed me,' he answered.

'But why did she show you?'

'It's easy,' he said, and laughed. 'You saw all those people in the street? I paid them to help us. It wasn't a real fight and the blood wasn't real. When people shout "Fire!", a woman runs to the most important thing in her house, her baby, her gold, or...a photograph. Mrs Norton ran to find her photograph, which is in a cupboard in the sitting-room. 1 saw it. But I did not take it. Tomorrow we will go to her house with the King. We'll go very early, before she gets up. The King himself can take the photograph from the cupboard. And then we'll go.'

While Holmes was talking, we were walking home to Baker Street. When we arrived at my friend's house, a young man hurried past us, and said: 'Good night, Mr Sherlock Holmes.'

'I've heard that voice before,' said Holmes to me. He looked down the street. 'But who was it?'

up and down backwards and forwards 来来回回，往返

up and down

cupboard n. a piece of furniture or small recess with a door and usually shelves, used for storage 壁橱

cupboard

3．着火了！

那天晚上福尔摩斯换了不同的衣服，戴了一顶黑色的大帽子。但不一样的不仅仅是衣服，他还改变了面容、头发一所有的东西。他变成了一个完全不同的人。

我们一起走到瑟芬泰恩街。那房子外面有很多人在抽烟、说笑。福尔摩斯和我在房子前面走来走去。

“你知道，”福尔摩斯对我说，“我觉得她不想让她丈夫看到那张照片。但是它在哪儿呢？在她的银行？不。女人都喜欢自己保管重要的东西。我敢肯定那东西就在她家里。”

“但是国王的手下已经试图找过了！”我说。

“没错，但是他们不知道去哪儿找！”福尔摩斯说。

“但你 又怎么能知道呢？”我问。

“我不用找。她会指给我看的。她不得不指给我看。”

就在那时，一辆出租马车到了。街上的一个人跑过去开车门，而另一个人推了他一下。其他人也在又推又叫，开始一场混战。艾琳·诺顿被困在中间，夏洛克·福尔摩斯跑过去帮她解围。突然，他摔倒在地上，血从脸上流下来。艾琳·诺顿快步跑到她家门口，又回头看了看。“他是个好人，帮了我！这个可怜的人受伤了吗？”她喊道。

“他死了。”有些人喊。

“不，他只是受伤了。”另外一些人喊。

“把他抬到客厅里来。”她说。

一些人把福尔摩斯抬进了房间。我在窗户外面等着，看着。我看见了艾琳·诺顿，她果然很漂亮。然后我看到福尔摩斯举起了手，于是马上把烟雾棒扔进了屋里。立刻，街上和屋里的人都开始大喊：“着火了！”房子里充满了烟雾。我走开了，10分钟之后福尔摩斯就来跟我汇合了。

“做得很好，华生。”他说。

“你拿到照片了吗？”我问。

“我知道它在哪儿了。她告诉我的。”他回答。

“可她为什么要告诉你呢？”

“这很简单，”他说着，笑了起来，“你看到街上的那些人了吧？我付钱给他们，让他们帮我们。那不是真的打架，血也不是真的。当人们喊‘着火了！’的时候，女人会跑去拿家里最重要的东西，她的孩子、她的金子、或者……一张照片。诺顿夫人跑去拿她的照片，就在客厅的一个壁橱里，我看到了。但我没有拿。明天我们和国王一起去她家。我们要去得非常早，在她起床之前就去。国王可以自己去壁橱里拿照片。然后我们就走。”

福尔摩斯说话的时候，我们正向贝克街的家走去。快到我朋友家时，一位年轻人很快地经过我们，并且说：“晚安，福尔摩斯先生。”

“我以前听过那个声音，”福尔摩斯对我说。他沿街看去。“但那是谁呢？”

4A Photograph

A Photograph

The next day we went to Irene Norton's house, with the King. An old servant opened the door. 'Mr Sherlock Holmes?' she asked, and smiled.

'Yes,' said my friend. He looked very surprised.

'Mrs Irene Norton and her husband left England this morning. They will never come back to this country.'

'What?' cried Holmes, his face white and angry.

'And what about the photograph?' cried the King.

We all hurried into the sitting-room. Holmes ran to the cupboard and opened it. Inside was a photograph, not of Irene Adler and the King, but of the beautiful Irene alone. There was also a letter for Sherlock Holmes. We all read it together.

My dear Mr Sherlock Holmes,

You did it very well. I thought that it was a real fire, and that you were just a kind old man. But after I opened the cupboard, I began to think. I knew about the famous Sherlock Holmes. I knew your address, and I knew that the King asked you to find the photograph. So I quickly dressed as a young man and followed you home to Baker Street. I wanted to find out if you really were Sherlock Holmes. I said 'good night' to you outside your door!

　My husband and I have decided to leave England. Please tell the King that I shall not show the photograph to anybody. I love my husband and he loves me. And he is a better man than the King. But here is a different photograph. And the King can keep this photograph, if he likes.

Irene Norton

'What a woman!' cried the King. 'Why didn't I marry her? What a woman!'

'A very, very clever woman,' said Sherlock Holmes coldly. 'I am sorry, Your Majesty, that this business has not finished well.'

'No, no,' said the King. 'She writes that she will never show the photograph to anybody. I need nothing more than her word. There is no danger for me now. How can I thank you, dear Mr Holmes?'

'I would like just one thing, Your Majesty.'

'Tell me at once what it is,' said the King.

'This photograph.'

The King looked at him in surprise. 'Irene's photograph?' he cried. 'But of course. It is yours.'

And so there was no terrible scandal in the royal families of Europe. And Sherlock Holmes still has the photograph of the woman who was cleverer than he was.

coldly adv. unemotionally 冷淡地

coldly

4．一张照片

第二天我们和国王一起去了艾琳·诺顿的家。一个老仆人开了门。“夏洛克·福尔摩斯先生？”她问，笑了笑。

“是的。”我的朋友说。他看起来很吃惊。

“艾琳·诺顿夫人和她的丈夫今天早上离开了英国。他们再也不会回这个国家了。”

“什么？”福尔摩斯喊道，他的脸气得发白。

“那么照片呢？”国王大叫起来。

我们全都冲进客厅。福尔摩斯奔向壁橱，拉开门。里面有一张照片。不是艾琳·阿德勒和国王的合影，而是美丽的艾琳的独照。还有一封给夏洛克·福尔摩斯的信。我们一起读了这封信。

亲爱的夏洛克·福尔摩斯先生：

你做得很好。我还以为那是场真的火灾，而你只是位好心的老人。但是我打开壁橱之后开始思考。我知道大名鼎鼎的夏洛克·福尔摩斯。我知道你的地址，而且我也知道国王让你寻找照片。所以我很快化装成一个年轻人，跟踪你回到贝克街。我想知道你究竟是不是夏洛克·福尔摩斯。我在你家门外跟你说了“晚安”！

我丈夫和我决定离开英国。请告诉国王我不会将照片给任何人看。我爱我的丈夫，他也爱我。他是个比国王更好的男人。不过这里有另外一张照片。如果国王愿意，他可以保留这张照片。

艾琳·诺顿

“多厉害的女人啊！”国王大声感叹，“我为什么没娶她呢？多厉害的女人啊！”

“一个非常聪明的女人，”夏洛克·福尔摩斯冷淡地说，“很抱歉，陛下，这件事没有办好。”

“不，不，”国王说，“她说她不会给任何人看照片的。我只要有她这句话就够了。现在我没有要担心的事了。我该怎么感谢你呢，亲爱的福尔摩斯先生？”

“我只想要一件东西，陛下。”

“马上告诉我你要什么。”国王说。

“这张照片。”

国王吃惊地看着他。“艾琳的照片？”他叫道，“当然可以。这是你的了。”

就这样，欧洲皇室没有出现可怕的丑闻。而夏洛克·福尔摩斯仍然保存着这个比他还聪明的女人的照片。

The Five Orange Pips

五个桔核

1The Story of Uncle Elias

The Story of Uncle Elias

In September 1887 my wife was visiting some of her family, so I was staying with my old friend Sherlock Holmes in Baker Street. It was a windy, stormy evening, and the rain was falling heavily outside. Suddenly there was a knock at the door.

I looked at my friend in surprise. 'Who can this be?' I asked.

'If he comes on business in this weather, it's important,' said Sherlock Holmes. 'Come in!' he called.

A young man came in. He looked wet, tired and worried. 'I've come to ask for help,' he said. 'I've heard of you, Mr Holmes. People say you know everything. I don't know what to do.'

'Well, sit down,' said Holmes, 'and tell me about yourself.'

The young man sat down, and put his wet feet near the fire. 'My name is John Openshaw. My father, Joseph, had a brother, my uncle Elias, who went to live in America when he was young. He made a lot of money there. He didn't like the black Americans, so during the Civil War he fought against the men from the North, and with those from the South. But when the South lost the war, and there was equality for black people, Uncle Elias left America. So in 1890 he came back to England and went to live in a large house in the country. He was a strange, unhappy man.

'He did not want any friends,' John Openshaw went on, 'and he often drank a lot. But he liked me, and when I was twelve, I moved to Uncle Elias's house. He was very kind to me. I could go anywhere in the house. But there was one small room at the top of the house which was always locked. Nobody could go into this room.

'One day Uncle Elias got a letter from Pondicherry in India. "I don't know anyone in Pondicherry!" he said, but when he opened the envelope, five little orange pips fell on to his plate. I began to laugh but stopped when I saw my uncle's white face.

'"K. K. K. !" he cried. "Oh my God, my God, they've found me!"

'"What do you mean, uncle?" I asked.

'"Death!" he cried, and ran upstairs.

'I looked at the envelope, which had three Ks on the back. There was no letter. Who sent it? And why was my uncle so afraid?

'Uncle Elias went immediately to the secret room and took out a box which also had three Ks on it. He burnt all the papers in the box, and said to me, "John, I know that I'm going to die soon. My brother, your father, will have all my money and my house after my death, and you will have it all when he dies. I hope you can enjoy it, but if not, give it to your worst enemy. I'm afraid that my money brings death with it."

'I didn't understand what he meant, and nothing happened for a few weeks, so I did not feel so worried. But my uncle was very afraid. He stayed in his room most of the time, and drank more than before. He always locked all the doors carefully. Then one night he drank very heavily and ran wildly out of the house, and in the morning we found him dead in a river. The police said he killed himself, but I knew he was afraid to die, so I didn't think that was true.'

Holmes stopped the young man for a minute. 'Tell me,' he said. 'When did your uncle get the letter from India, and when did he die?'

'The letter arrived on 10th March 1883, and he died seven weeks later,' answered John Openshaw.

'Thank you. Please go on,' said Holmes.

'After my uncle's death, my father moved into the house. Of course I asked him to look carefully at the locked room, but we didn't find anything important.'

equality n. the state of being equal 平等

equality

envelope n. a flat paper container with a sealable flap. used to enclose a letter or document 信封

envelope

1．伊莱亚斯叔叔的故事

1887年9月，我妻子去拜访亲戚，所以我到贝克街和我的老朋友夏洛克·福尔摩斯住在一起。那是一个暴风雨之夜，外面雨下得很大。突然传来敲门声。

我吃惊地看了看我的朋友。“这会是谁呢？”我问。

“如果他在这种天气出来办事，那肯定是有很重要的事儿，”福尔摩斯说，“请进！”他大声说。

一个年轻人走了进来。他看起来浑身都湿了，疲惫不堪，而且愁容满面。“我是来寻求帮助的，”他说，“我听说过你，福尔摩斯先生。人们说你无所不知。我不知道该怎么办。”

“好了，坐下吧，”福尔摩斯说，“跟我说说你的情况。”

年轻人坐下，把他湿湿的双脚放到火旁。“我叫约翰·奥彭肖。我父亲约瑟夫有一个弟弟，我叔叔伊莱亚斯，他年轻时就去了美国。他在那里赚了很多钱。他不喜欢美国黑人，所以内战期间他和南方人一起跟北方人打仗。但是南方打败了，黑人获得了平等权利，伊莱亚斯叔叔就离开了美国。1890年，他回到英国，住在乡下的一所大房子里。他是一个奇怪的人，总是不开心。

“他不想要任何朋友，”约翰·奥彭肖继续说，“他还经常酗酒。但是他很喜欢我，我12岁的时候搬到了伊莱亚斯叔叔家里。他对我非常好。我可以到房子的任何地方去。但是房子顶部有一个小房间总是锁着，谁都不可以进去。

“一天，伊莱亚斯叔叔收到一封来自印度本地治里的信。‘我在本地治里没有认识的人！’他说。但是当他打开信封，五个桔核掉到他的盘子上。我笑起来，但是看到叔叔苍白的脸色就笑不出来了。

“‘K. K. K. ！’他叫道，‘噢，我的上帝啊，我的上帝，他们找到我了！’

“‘你是什么意思，叔叔？’”我问。

“‘死亡！’他大叫，然后跑上了楼。

“我看了看信封，信封背面有三个K，里面却没有信。谁寄来的呢？我叔叔为什么这么害怕呢？

“伊莱亚斯叔叔立刻到那个秘密房间里拿出一个盒子，上面也有三个K。他烧掉了盒子里的所有文件，对我说：‘约翰，我知道我就要死了。我的哥哥，你的父亲，会在我死后得到我所有的钱财和房子，他 死后你 将得到这所有的一切。我希望你能够享用它，但是如果不能，就把它送给你最坏的敌人。我担心我的钱会带来死亡。’

“我不懂他的意思，后来的几个星期什么也没发生，所以我也不那么担心了。但是我叔叔非常害怕。他大部分时间都待在他的房间里，喝酒比以前更凶了。他总是仔细锁好所有的门。后来，有一天晚上他喝得烂醉，疯狂地跑出房子，到早上，我们发现他死在河里。警察说他是自杀，但我知道他害怕死，所以我觉得那不是真的。”

福尔摩斯打断了年轻人。“告诉我，”他说，“你叔叔什么时候收到印度的来信的？他又是什么时候死的？”

“信是1883年3月10日到的，他是七个星期之后死的。”约翰·奥彭肖回答。

“谢谢。请继续说吧。”福尔摩斯说。

“我叔叔死后，我父亲搬到了这库房子里。当然，我让他仔细查看了锁着的房间，但是我们没找到任何重要的东西。”

2More Pips

More Pips

'Everything went well until a year later,' said John Openshaw. 'But one morning my father opened a letter to find five orange pips inside it. "What does this mean, John?" he asked. His face was white.

'"Look!" I said. "There's K. K. K. on the envelope. Those letters were on Uncle Elias's envelope too!" We were both shaking and afraid.

'"Yes, and this time it says 'Put the papers in the garden'."

'"Which papers? The papers in Uncle Elias's box? He burnt them!" I said.

'"And where has this letter come from?" my father said. He looked at the envelope. "Dundee, Scotland. Well, I don't know anything about pips or papers. I'm not going to do anything."

'"Father, you must tell the police," I said.

'I remembered my uncle's letter from India, and I was very worried.

'"No, they'll laugh at me. Let's just forget about it," he replied.

'Three days later my poor father went to visit an old friend who lived some miles away. But he never came back. The police said that he was walking home in the dark when he fell down a hill. He was badly hurt, and he died soon after. They decided it was an accident, but I didn't agree. I thought it was murder, and I could not forget the five orange pips and the strange letters to my uncle and my father.

'But I've tried to forget, and I've lived alone in that house for nearly three years now. Then yesterday I got this.'

The young man showed us an envelope with K. K. K. on the back, and five small orange pips. 'You see?' he said. 'It comes from East London, and it says "Put the papers in the garden". Those are the words that were in the letter to my father.'

'So what did you do next?' asked Holmes.

'Nothing,' answered Openshaw. He put his head in his hands. 'I don't know what to do. I'm afraid.'

'Nothing?' cried Holmes. 'Young man, you must do something fast. You're in danger!'

'Well, I've talked to the police,' said Openshaw unhappily. 'But they laughed at me. They think that there's nothing to worry about.'

'How stupid they are!' cried Holmes. 'And why didn't you come to me immediately? Your enemies have had almost two days to make a plan. Haven't you found anything which will help us?'

'Well, I found this in the locked room,' said John Openshaw. He showed us a small, half-burnt piece of paper. 'It was with my uncle's papers. It's his writing. Look, it says:

March 7th 1869 Sent the pips to three people, Brown,

Robinson and Williams.

March 9th Brown left.

March 10th Williams left.

March 12th Visited Robinson and finished business with him.

'Thank you,' said Sherlock Holmes. 'And now you must hurry home. Put this paper into your uncle's box, put in a letter which says that your uncle burnt all the other papers, and put the box outside in the garden. I hope your enemies will be happy with that, and then you won't be in danger any more. How are you going home?'

'By train from Waterloo station,' replied Openshaw.

'There'll be a lot of people in the streets, so I think that you'll be all right. But be careful.'

'Thank you, Mr Holmes,' said Openshaw. 'I'll do everything you say.' He went out into the dark night, the wind and the rain.

laugh at ridicule, scorn 嘲笑

laugh at

accident n. an unfortunate incident that happens unexpectedly and unintentionally 事故

accident

2．更多的桔核

“从那之后的一年里一切都很好，”约翰·奥彭肖说，“但是一天早上，我父亲打开一封信，发现里面有五个桔核。‘这是什么意思，约翰？’他问我。他的脸色苍白。

“‘看！’我说，‘信封上有三个K。伊莱亚斯叔叔的信封上也有那几个字母！’我们都害怕得发抖。

“‘是的，这一次信里说“把文件放到花园里”。’

“‘什么文件？伊莱亚斯叔叔盒子里的文件？他把它们都烧了！’我说。

“‘这封信是从哪儿寄来的？’我父亲说。他看了看信封。‘苏格兰的敦提。好吧，我不知道什么桔核或文件。我什么也不打算做。’

“‘父亲，你必须通知警察。’我说。

“我记起叔叔那封来自印度的信，我非常担心。

“‘不，他们会笑话我的。让我们忘了它吧，’他回答。

“三天之后我可怜的父亲去看望一位住在几英里之外的老朋友。但他再也没有回来。警察说他步行赶夜路回家，失足跌下了山。他受了很严重的伤，不久就死了。他们判定这是个事故，但是我不同意。我认为是谋杀，我不能忘记那五个桔核和给我叔叔和父亲的怪信。

“但是我尽量忘记，到现在我独自住在那个房子里快三年了。而昨天我收到了这个。”

年轻人拿出一个的背面有三个K信封，又拿出五个小桔核。“你们明白了吗？”他说，“这是从伦敦东区寄来的，上面说‘把文件放到花园里’，就是给我父亲的信里的话。”

“那你接着做了什么？”福尔摩斯问。

“什么也没做。”奥彭肖回答。他用手抱着头。“我不知道该做什么。我害怕。”

“什么也没做？”福尔摩斯大叫，“年轻人，你必须尽快做点儿什么。你正处在危险当中！”

“哦，我已经跟警察谈过了，”奥彭肖闷闷不乐地说，“但是他们笑话我。他们认为没有什么可担心的。”

“他们真蠢！”福尔摩斯大声说，“你为什么不立刻来找我呢？你的敌人已经筹划了差不多两天了。你没找到什么可以帮我们的东西吗？”

“唔，我在锁着的房间里找到了这个，”约翰·奥彭肖说。他给我们看了一小张烧了一半的纸。“这是和我叔叔的文件在一起的。这是他的笔迹。看，上面说：

1869年3月7日把桔核寄给了三个人，

布朗、鲁宾逊和威廉。

3月9日布朗离开了。

3月10日威廉离开了。

3月12日拜访了鲁宾逊并跟他做了了结。

“谢谢你。”夏洛克·福尔摩斯说，“现在你必须马上回家去。把这张纸放到你叔叔的盒子里，再附一封信说你叔叔烧掉了所有其他的文件，然后把盒子放到外面的花园里。我希望你的敌人能对这个交待满意，那么你就不会再有危险了。你要怎么回家？”

“在滑铁卢车站坐火车。”奥彭肖回答。

“街上有很多人，所以我认为你会没事的，但是要小心。”

“谢谢你，福尔摩斯先生，”奥彭肖说，“我会照你说的做。”他出门走进风雨交加的黑夜里。

3K. K. K.

K. K. K.

Sherlock Holmes sat silently, and watched the fire. Then he said to me, 'John Openshaw is in real danger. Why did his Uncle Elias have to leave America? Because he had enemies. When he came back to England he was afraid. That's why he lived a lonely life and locked all his doors so carefully. Now where did those letters come from? Did you see?'

'The first from Pondicherry in India, the second from Dundee in Scotland and the third from East London,' I answered.

'Does that tell you anything?' asked Holmes.

'They're all sea ports. The writer was on a ship when he wrote the letters,' I replied. I was pleased with my answer.

'Very good, Watson,' said Holmes. 'Somebody sent some pips from India, and arrived seven weeks later to kill Uncle Elias. Then he sent some pips from Scotland and arrived three days later to kill John's father. Do you see why I'm worried now? He has sent pips to John from London ! John's enemy is in London already!'

'Good God, Holmes!' I cried. 'Who is this man?'

'More than one man, I think. They belong to the Ku Klux Klan. That explains the "K. K. K. ". Haven't you ever heard of it? It's a very secret group of Americans from the South. They wanted to stop equality for black people and to kill anyone who didn't agree with them. The police couldn't stop them. But in 1869 Uncle Elias, who belonged to this secret group, suddenly left America with all their papers, and so the group could not go on. Of course the group wanted to get the papers back. You remember the half-burnt paper? That was Uncle Elias's American diary. While he was working for the K. K. K. , he sent the pips to frighten those three men. Two left the country, but one didn't, so the K. K. K. "finished business with him", or killed him. The K. K. K. always worked like that.'

'Well, I hope they won't kill young Openshaw,' I said.

port n. a town or city with a harbour or access to navigable water where ships load or unload 港口

port

belong v. to be a member of a group 属于

belong

3．三K党

夏洛克·福尔摩斯安静地坐着，看着炉火。然后他对我说：“约翰·奥彭肖真的有危险。他叔叔为什么被迫离开美国？因为他有敌人。他回到英国以后很害怕。所以他会过着孤独的生活，还那么仔细地把所有的门都锁好。那么那些信是从哪儿来的呢？你看到了吗？”

“第一封寄自印度的本地治里，第二封寄自苏格兰的敦提，第三封寄自伦敦东区。”我回答。

“那告诉了你什么呢？”福尔摩斯问。

“它们都是海港。信是在船上写的。”我叫答说。我对自己的回答很满意。

“非常好，华生，”福尔摩斯说，“有人从印度寄出桔核，七个星期之后到达并杀了伊莱亚斯叔叔。后来他又从苏格兰寄出桔核，三天之后到达并杀了约翰的父亲。现在你明白我为什么这么担心了吧？他从伦敦 给约翰寄出桔核！约翰的敌人已经在伦敦了！”

“上帝啊，福尔摩斯！”我叫起来，“这个人是谁？”

“我认为不止一个人。他们都是三K党的人。这就解释了‘K. K. K. ’。你没有听说过他们吗？这是美国南方的一个秘密组织。他们想阻止黑人得到平等权利，还杀死所有与他们意见不同的人。警察也不能阻止他们。但是1869年，属于这个秘密组织的伊莱亚斯叔叔突然带着他们的文件离开了美国，所以这个组织不能继续了。他们当然想把文件找回来。你还记得烧了一半的纸吗？那是伊莱亚斯叔叔在美国的日记。他为三K党工作的时候，给那三个人寄桔核恐吓他们。有两个离开了美国，但是有一个没有，所以三K党‘跟他做了了结’，或者说杀了他。三K党都是这么做的。”

“哦，我希望他们不会杀死年轻的奥彭肖。”我说。

4The Last Deaths

The Last Deaths

But they did. The next morning we read in the newspaper that John Openshaw was dead. A policeman found him in the river near Waterloo station. The police said it was an accident, but Holmes was very angry about it.

'He came to me for help and those men murdered him! I'm going to find them, if it's the last thing I do!' he said to me, and he hurried out of the house.

In the evening, when he came back to Baker Street, he was tired, but pleased. 'Watson!' he said, 'I know the names of Openshaw's enemies! And now I'm going to send them a surprise! This will frighten them!' He took five pips from an orange and put them in an envelope. On it he wrote 'S. H. for J. C. '

'I'm sending the pips, not from the K. K. K, but from me, Sherlock Holmes, to Captain James Calhoun. His ship is called the Star . He and his men are sailing back to Georgia, USA, now.'

'How did you find him, Holmes?' I asked.

'Ship's papers,' he said. 'I've looked at hundreds of them today. Only one ship, the Star , was in the three ports at the right times, and this morning the Star left London to sail back to Georgia. I found out that the captain and two of his men, all Americans, weren't on the ship last night, so I'm sure they killed poor John Openshaw. When they arrive in America, they'll get the pips and then the police will catch them!'

Sherlock Holmes is a very clever detective, but he can do nothing about the weather. The winter storms at sea that year were worse than ever, and so the Star never arrived in Georgia, and nobody saw the captain or his men again. The murderers of John Openshaw did not get the pips, but, in the end, death came to them.

murder v. the unlawful killing of one human being by another 谋杀

murder

sail v. to move across the surface of water, especially by means of a sailing vessel 航行

sail

frighten v. cause to be afraid 使惊吓

frighten

captain n. the person in command of a ship 船长

captain

4．最后的死亡

但他们还是那么做了。第二天早上我们从报纸上得知约翰·奥彭肖死了。一个警察在滑铁卢车站附近的河里发现了他。警方说那是事故，但是福尔摩斯对此非常气愤。

“他来找我求助，那些人竟然谋杀了他！我要找出他们，哪怕这是我做的最后一件事！”他对我说，然后就匆匆出门了。

晚上，他回到贝克街，看上去很疲惫，但是很高兴。“华生！”他说，“我知道奥彭肖的敌人的名字了！现在我要吓他们一跳！这会震住他们的！”他从一个桔子里取出五个核，把它们放进一个信封里。他在上面写道：“S. H. 给J. C. ”。

“寄桔核给詹姆斯·卡尔霍恩船长的不是三K党，而是我，夏洛克·福尔摩斯。他的船叫‘繁星号’。他和他的手下现在正返航回美国佐治亚州。”

“你是怎么找到他的，福尔摩斯？”我问。

“轮船的文件，”他说，“我今天看了几百份。只有一艘船，‘繁星号’，在正确的时间停留在那三个港口，今天上午，‘繁星号’离开伦敦返回佐治亚州。我发现三个美国人，船长和他的两个手下昨晚不在船上，所以我敢肯定是他们杀死了可怜的约翰·奥彭肖。到达美国的时候，他们会收到桔核，警察也会抓住他们的！”

夏洛克·福尔摩斯是个非常聪明的侦探，但是他对天气无能为力。那年冬天，海上的风暴比以往任何时候都厉害，而“繁星号”没能到达佐治亚，也没有人再看到过船长和他的手下。杀害约翰·奥彭肖的凶手没有收到桔核，但是最后也没有逃脱死亡的惩罚。

ACTIVITIES

Before Reading

1．How much do you know about detective stories? Think about these questions.

1) Have you read any stories about famous detectives? What are their names? Are they always policemen or policewomen?

2) Have you seen any films or television programmes about detectives? Which ones? Which film or TV detective do you like best, and why?

3) In books or films, does the detective usually catch the criminal? Is the detective always 'good' and the criminal always 'bad'?

2．Read the story introduction of this book. What do you know now, or what can you guess, about Sherlock Holmes?

Tick one of the boxes.

1) He was a real person.

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

2) He often worked with a friend.

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

3) He always carried a gun.

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

4) His flat was in Baker Street.

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

5) He worked in an office every day.

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

6) He looked at people and things very carefully.

YES □／NO □／PERHAPS □

ACTIVITIES

While Reading

The Speckled Band

1．Read Chapter 1, then answer these questions.

Who

1)...killed a servant?

2)...died in an accident eight years ago?

3)...died two years ago?

4)...was afraid of the wild animals and the gipsies?

2．Read Chapter 2. Here are some untrue sentences. Change them into true sentences.

1) Dr Roylott did not need the girl's money.

2) Something was wrong with Helen's bedroom wall.

3) Helen and Julia often used the bell-rope.

4) The air-vent was outside the two bedrooms.

3．Before you read Chapter 3 (Death in the Night ), can you guess what is going to happen?

Tick one box each time.

1) Dr Roylott kills Helen.

YES □／NO □

2) Watson kills a cat.

YES □／NO □

3) Dr Roylott dies.

YES □／NO □

4) Holmes finds the killer.

YES □／NO □

5) The gipsies kill Dr Roylott.

YES □／NO □

A Scandal in Bohemia

1．Read Chapters 1 and 2. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

1) Sherlock Holmes loved Irene Adler.

2) Watson and Holmes agreed to keep a secret.

3) Irene Adler had a photo of herself and the King.

4) Irene was happy to hear that the King was going to marry Clotilde.

5) The King gave Holmes two thousand pounds.

6) Holmes found out a lot from Irene Adler's servants.

7) Four taxis drove to the church of St Monica.

8) Holmes helped Irene to marry Godfrey Norton.

2．Read Chapters 3 and 4. Choose the best question-word for these questions, and then answer them.

Who / Where / Why / What

1)...fell, with blood running down his face?

2)...did Irene bring Holmes into her house?

3)...did Watson throw the smoke-stick into the room?

4)...happened next?

5)...did Irene hide the photo?

6)...said, 'Good night, Mr Sherlock Holmes'?

7)...was the King happy in the end?

8)...did Holmes ask the King to give him?

The Five Orange Pips

1. Read Chapters 1 and 2. Who said or wrote this?

1) 'I've come to ask for help.'

2) 'I don't know anyone in Pondicherry!'

3) 'He killed himself.'

4) 'Put the papers in the garden.'

5) 'Let's just forget about it.'

6) 'You must do something fast.'

7) 'Sent the pips to three people.'

8) 'I'll do everything you say.

2. Before you read Chapter 3 (K. K. K. ) and Chapter 4 (The Last Deaths ), can you guess the answers to these questions?

1) Are the K. K. K. Americans?

2) Where are the K. K. K. now?

3) Will they come to John Openshaw's house?

4) Will they kill John Openshaw?

5) Will Sherlock Holmes find the killers?

6) Will Sherlock Holmes need Dr Watson's help?

7) How many people are going to die?

8) Will it be the end of the K. K. K?

ACTIVITIES

After Reading

1．Look at these possible new titles for the three stories. Match all the titles with the stories. Which one do you like best for each story? Explain why.

The Speckled Band

A Scandal in Bohemia

The Five Orange Pips

1) The King's Photograph

2) Death in an Envelope

3) Money Isn't Everything

4) A Dangerous Room

5) Finished Business

6) All for Love

7) Death in the Country

8) A Clever Woman

9) An Unexpected Death

10) A Dark Secret from the Past

11) Money Matters

12) In the Wrong Hands

2．In The Speckled Band , perhaps the police asked one of the gipsies what he saw and heard on the night of Dr Roylott's death. Use these words from the story to complete the conversation. (Use each word once.)

anyone, bedroom, box, dead, friends, garden, happened, head, help, hours, light, listened, night, ran, saw, speckled, terrible, through, what, where, whistle, wife

POLICE:

Tell me, where were you at midnight last ______?

GIPSY:

I was outside in the ______, sitting round a small fire with my ______ and child, and some of our ______.

POLICE:

Did you see ______ moving around in the garden?

GIPSY:

Yes, I ______ two men. They crossed the garden and got into the house ______ Miss Stoner's window.

POLICE:

It was dark then. Were they carrying a ______?

GIPSY:

No, but there was a light in the room, so they could see ______ to go.

POLICE:

And what ______ next?

GIPSY:

Nothing happened for about three ______. I waited near the house and ______. Then I heard a quiet ______, and after that a ______ cry from Dr Roylott's room.

POLICE:

Did you see ______ was happening in his room?

GIPSY:

Yes, I ______ to his window and looked in. The two men were there. They were looking at a metal ______. And I saw Dr Roylott sitting in a chair, with a yellow ______ band round his ______. Then I ran away.

POLICE:

Thank you for your ______. You can go now.

3．Here is a conversation between the King of Bohemia and Irene Adler (see A Scandal in Bohemia ). The conversation is in the wrong order. Write it out in the correct order and put in the speakers' names. The King speaks first (number 3).

1) ______ 'Irene, please! You know that I cannot marry you. I must marry a woman of royal blood.'

2) ______ 'I think that I want to keep it. Perhaps I'll look at it every day, and remember our love.'

3) ______ 'Irene, I've come to ask you for that photograph.'

4) ______ 'Don't talk about money! I'm not interested in that at all! Leave me alone! Leave this room at once!'

5) ______ 'Think of my name and my family, Irene! There must be no scandal. I loved you, yes, I did, but that's finished now—'

6) ______ 'Well, if I am not good enough for Your Majesty, no other woman will be. I'll send the photograph to Clotilde!'

7) ______ 'But I must have it, Irene! If Clotilde von Saxe-Meningen ever sees that photograph—'

8) ______ 'Finished? So, I'm like an old coat that you don't want to wear any more! What a fine friend you are!'

9) ______ 'No! Irene, how much do you want for the photograph?'

10) ______ 'Ah! If she sees it, perhaps she will not marry you! And there will be a scandal!'

4．In The Five Orange Pips perhaps Elias Openshaw kept a diary. Here is what he wrote at the end of 10th March 1883. Use the linking words below to complete his diary for that day. (Use each word once.)

then / but /so / because / and / if / when / while /which / immediately / who

It's night-time now, and I feel afraid, ______ I've locked all the doors very carefully. Today I received the five orange pips from the K. K. K. ! I've been safe from them for the last fourteen years, ______ now I know that it's the end.

This morning I was at the breakfast table with young John ______ the servant brought in the post. There was a letter ______ came from Pondicherry in India. At first, I was surprised, ______ I don't know anyone ______ lives there. ______ I realized that it meant death! The five orange pips were in the envelope, ______ they fell on to my plate.

______, I hurried upstairs to fetch the K. K. K. box from the locked room. ______ John was watching, I burnt all the papers in the box. But it's no good, I know that they will find me and kill me! And ______ poor John gets my money one day, he will die too!

5．What do you think about Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson? Think about these questions.

1) Do you think Sherlock Holmes is a clever detective? What is he specially good at?

2) Why do people ask Holmes for help? Does he always keep them out of danger?

3) What do you think about Dr Watson? Is he as clever as Holmes? Does Holmes really need him?

4) Is Holmes ready to kill someone who has killed another person (like Dr Roylott)? Is Holmes himself a killer?

5) Does Holmes always find the answer? Is he always cleverer than the other people in the stories?

6．Which story did you like best, and which did you like least? Can you explain why? Write a short review of one of the stories. Use these words to help you.

I liked / didn't like this story because...

...nobody died

...could / couldn't guess the answer

... the murderer (s) was (were) killed

... a good person was murdered

... somebody was cleverer than Sherlock Holmes

... happy / unhappy ending

京权图字 01-97-0331

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 1989

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

一个国王的爱情故事：英汉对照／（英）戴恩蒂（Dainty, P.）著；夏青译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，1998.11（2013.9 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：The Love of a King

ISBN 978-7-5600-1455-5

Ⅰ．一…　Ⅱ．①戴…②夏…　Ⅲ．小说，英国—对照读物—英、汉　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（1998）第16564号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 李　萌

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 1998年11月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-1455-5

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

制售盗版必究　举报查实奖励

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519

版权保护举报电话：（010）88817519





简　介


你想当国王、想拥有荣华富贵、名闻天下吗？你希望无论走到哪里都成为众人的中心吗？你希望自己每时每刻、每一天都是人们关注的对象吗？

国王永远不会独自一人。每时每刻总有人注视着他——有时是他的保镖，有时是街上成千的民众。他永远不会独自一人；每个人都认识他的面孔。他做事必须检点，因为他的所做所为是无法保密的。

国王今天说了什么，明天全世界的人都会知道。他说话得谨慎；因为总有人在听。

这可不像一般的工作那样，5点钟就可以下班。国王没有假期。国王永远是国王——每时每刻都是国王。

国王永远不会独自一人，但他总是感到孤独。谁会是国王的朋友呢？谁会与他共同分担那份孤独呢？

作者彼德·戴恩蒂从事英语教学多年，目前在伦敦工作。





A Family Tree






家族世系图






The Duke and Duchess of Windsor


1894

Edward is born in Richmond, England.

1896

Wallis is born in Baltimore, USA.

1911

Edward becomes Prince of Wales.

1912

Edward enters Oxford University.

1914

The First World War begins. Edward sees fighting on the front line in Belgium.

1916

Wallis marries Winfield Spencer.

1920

Edward begins a five-year journey round the world. He visits 45 countries and travels 240000 kilometres.

1927

Wallis divorces Winfield Spencer.

1928

Wallis marries Ernest Simpson.

1930

Edward meets Wallis at a weekend house party.

1936

January King George Ⅴ dies. Edward is now King.

June Edward tells his mother that he wants to marry Wallis.

December Edward gives the crown to his brother and leaves England.

1937

Edward and Wallis marry in France. They take the name Duke and Duchess of Windsor. None of the Royal Family come to the wedding. For the next thirty years the Duke and Duchess live outside England.

1966

Queen Elizabeth Ⅱ meets the Duke and Duchess at a small party in London. 'It's time to forget the past,' she says.

1972

Edward dies in Paris. His body is buried in England at Windsor Castle.

1986

Wallis dies in Paris and is buried next to Edward at Windsor.

Duke n. 公爵。

Duke

Duchess n. 公爵夫人。

Duchess

front line a line on which fighting takes place in time of war. 前线，战地。

front line

journey n. a trip of some distance. 旅行。

journey

crown n. the rank of king or queen 王位。

crown

royal adj. for, belonging to, or Connected with a king or queen 王室的，皇家的。

royal

castle n. 城堡。

castle





温莎公爵和夫人


1894

爱德华出生在英国的里士满。

1896

沃利斯出生在美国巴尔的摩。

1911

爱德华成为威尔士亲王。

1912

爱德华进入牛津大学。

1914

第一次世界大战爆发。爱德华在比利时前线督战。

1916

沃利斯与温菲尔德·斯潘塞结婚。

1920

爱德华开始了为期5年的环球旅行。他访问了45个国家，行程达24万公里。

1927

沃利斯与温菲尔德·斯潘塞离婚。

1928

沃利斯与欧内斯特·辛普森结婚。

1930

爱德华在一个周末家庭招待会上与沃利斯相识。

1936

1月：国王乔治五世逝世。爱德华登基。

6月：爱德华告诉母亲，他要与沃利斯结婚。

12月：爱德华将王位让给弟弟，然后离开英国。

1937

爱德华和沃利斯在法国结婚。他们被封为温莎公爵和夫人。皇族中没有人去参加他们的婚礼。在以后的30年里，公爵和夫人一直在英国以外的国家居住。

1966

女王伊丽莎白二世在伦敦的一个小型聚会上与温莎公爵和夫人相遇。她说：“现在是忘记过去的时候了。”

1972

爱德华在巴黎逝世。他的遗体埋葬在英国的温莎城堡。

1986

沃利斯在巴黎去世，葬在温莎城堡爱德华的墓旁。

IN APRIL 1987, THREE HUNDRED PEOPLE CAME TO A SMALL room in Geneva, Switzerland. There were Presidents and Kings, film stars and millionaires. They came from the four corners of the world, east and west, north and south, and they spoke many languages.

But they all wanted one thing — to buy some jewellery. It was the jewellery that a man called Edward gave a woman called Wallis.

One woman, Mrs Namiki from Japan, paid $105000 for a gold ring.

'Why did you pay all that money?' a friend asked. 'You can buy a gold ring in Tokyo for half that money.'

'Because Wallis and Edward were special to me,' Mrs Namiki replied. 'I never met them but I'll keep that ring all my life.'

In the next few hours, in that small room in Geneva, the jewellery was sold for $50000000. But who was Wallis? And who was Edward? And why was their love story so special?

Let's begin at the beginning...

Geneva 日内瓦。

Geneva

Switzerland 瑞士

Switzerland

film star 电影明星。

film star

millionaire n. a very rich man. 大富豪；百万富翁。

millionaire

the four corners of the world 世界各地。

the four corners of the world

jewellery n. 珠宝。

jewellery

special adj. not common or usual. 特别的；特殊的。

special

1987年4月，300人来到瑞士日内瓦的一间小屋子。他们当中有总统和国王，影星和百万富翁。他们来自世界各地，天南地北，操着各种语言。

但他们来的目的只有一个——买珠宝。这些珠宝是一位名叫爱德华的男人送给一位名叫沃利斯的女士的。

有一位从日本来的并木夫人，出价105000美元买了一枚金戒。

“你为什么花那么多钱？”一位朋友问，“在东京，有这一半的钱就能买一枚金戒。”

并木夫人答道：“因为沃利斯和爱德华对我有特殊的意义，我从未结识过他们，但这枚戒指我将终生珍藏。”

在随后的几个小时内，这些珠宝在日内瓦的那间小屋子里被拍卖，总额为5000万美元。但是，沃利斯是谁？爱德华又是谁呢？他们的爱情故事为什么那么特别？

让我们从头说起……





1A Lonely Child


A Lonely Child

Prince Edward was born in 1894. His father, King George Ⅴ, was a tall, cold man who did not like children. 'Why does Edward talk all the time?' he once said. 'He's a very noisy child!'

His mother, Queen Mary, agreed. 'It doesn't matter if Edward is happy or unhappy,' she said. 'A child must be silent and strong.'

The family lived in Buckingham Palace, which had 600 rooms. There were 8 kitchens, 19 bathrooms, 24 toilets, 11 dining rooms, 17 bedrooms and 21 sitting rooms.

Edward once told a story about the house:

Buckingham Palace was very big, and people sometimes got lost. One night my mother, my father and I were sitting in the dining room. We were waiting for our dinner. We waited and we waited, but the food did not come. After twenty minutes my father was very angry. He stood up and went to the kitchen. 'Where is the cook?' he shouted, 'and where is my food?'

'But, Sir, 'the cook replied, 'your dinner left the kitchen fifteen minutes ago. Hasn't it arrived yet?'

'No, it hasn't,' my father shouted, 'and I'm hungry.'

The King left the kitchen and began to look for the food. Ten minutes later he saw a woman who was carrying three plates of meal and potatoes. 'What happened to you?' my father said. 'Why didn't you bring us our dinner?'

'I'm sorry, Sir,' the woman replied. 'There are a lot of dining rooms. I couldn't remember where to go. But if you return to the table, Sir, this time I can follow you to the right room.'

Edward did not go to school with other children. He stayed in Buckingham Palace where he had a special classroom just for him.

This is how Edward described his lessons:

My teacher, Mr Hansell, was a thin man. He never smiled and his nose was very red. We had lots of books but they were all very boring. They were full of words and they didn't have any pictures.

Sometimes I stopped reading and looked out of the window. Mr Hansell got very angry. He took a stick and hit me on the arm. 'Don't look out of the window, little boy,' he shouted. 'Look at the book.' He hit me many times and, my arm was red.

Every Friday the teacher took me to my father's room. 'And what has my son learnt this week, Mr Hansell?' the King asked.

And the answer was always: 'Not very much I'm afraid, Sir. Edward doesn't like his lessons. He never listens to what I say.'

When Mr Hansell left the room, my father was angry with me. 'What's wrong with you, child?' he said. 'Are you stupid? Why can't you learn anything?'

'But the lessons are so boring, Sir,' I replied. 'And Mr Hansell hits me.'

'I don't understand you, Edward. You're a baby. You're so weak. You'll never be a good King. A King must be strong. Go to your room and stay there until the morning.'

'I spent many days alone in my room,' Edward wrote later. 'I never played with other children and I didn't have any friends. I lived in the most beautiful house in England but I was always lonely and sad. I saw my mother once a day at dinner time and I saw my father three or four times a week, but they never gave me any love. I was afraid of them and everything I did was wrong.'

agree v. have the same opinion . 同意，答应。

agree

kitchen n. a room in which meals are cooked . 厨房。

kitchen

bathroom n. a room with a bathtub . 浴室。

bathroom

toilet n . 洗手间，厕所。

toilet

sitting room 起居室。

sitting room

lost adj. unable to find the way. 迷路的。

lost

cook n. a person who prepares food . 厨师。

cook

follow v. come or go after . 跟着。

follow

just adv. only 仅，只。

just

describe v. give a picture in words . 描述。

describe

boring adj. being dull . 令人厌烦的，无聊的。

boring

be full of 充满。

be full of

stick n . 棍，棒。

stick

hit sb. on the arm 打某人的胳膊。

hit sb. on the arm

be angry with sb. 生某人的气。

be angry with sb.

understand v. know the meaning of (sth) . 懂，了解，知道。

understand

baby n. a person who behaves like a very young child . 有孩子气的人。

baby

weak adj. 懦弱的。

weak

until prep. 直到。

until

alone adj. without others. 单独，独自。

alone

lonely adj. unhappy because of being alone or without friends. 寂寞的。

lonely

once a day 每天一次。

once a day





1 　一个孤独的孩子


爱德华王子出生于1894年。他的父亲乔治五世国王身材高大，性情冷漠。他不喜欢孩子。“爱德华为什么总是说个不停？”有一次，他说，“这孩子真闹人！”

他的母亲玛丽王后也这么想。“爱德华高兴与否并不重要，”她说，“小孩子一定要沉静而坚强。”

他们一家住在白金汉宫。这座宫殿有600个房间，其中有8个厨房，19间浴室，24个卫生间，11个餐厅，17间卧室和21间起居室。

有一次，爱德华讲了一个关于这座房子的故事：

白金汉宫非常大，人们有时会迷路。一天晚上，我和我的父母亲坐在餐厅里等着吃晚饭。我们等呀等呀，但饭菜迟迟没有送上来。等了20分钟，我父亲火了。他起身去厨房。“厨师呢？”他喊道，“我的晚餐在哪儿？”

“可是，陛下，”厨师说，“您的晚餐15分钟之前就送走了。难道还没有送到吗？”

“没有，”我父亲高声叫道，“我饿坏了。”

国王离开厨房，开始去找晚餐。10分钟后，他看见一个女佣正端着3盘子肉和土豆。“你是怎么回事？”我父亲问，“你为什么不把晚餐给我们端来？”

“对不起，陛下，”女佣回答道，“这儿有很多餐厅。我记不起应该进哪一间，但要是您能回到餐桌旁去，陛下，这次我会跟着您找到该去的餐厅。”

爱德华没有和其他孩子一起去学校上学。他待在白金汉宫，那儿有他的专用教室。

爱德华这样形容他的课程：

我的老师汉塞尔先生人很瘦、他从来不笑，鼻子红红的．我们有很多书，但都枯燥乏味。书里全是字，一幅画儿也没有。

有时读着读着我会停下来，往窗外看。汉塞尔先生非常生气。他拿起一根小棒儿打我的胳膊。“别往窗外看，小男孩，”他叫道，“看书．”他一下又一下地打我，打得我胳膊都红了。

每到星期五，老师都把我带到父亲的房间里。

“汉塞尔先生，这个星期我的儿子学了些什么？”国王问。

回答总是这样的：“恐怕没学多少，陛下。爱德华不喜欢上课。我讲什么他从来不听。”

汉塞尔退出房间后，我父亲便对我发火。“孩子，你怎么了？”他说，“你是不是脑子笨？你为什么学不会任何东西？”

“可是那些课程太没意思了，陛下，”我回答，“汉塞尔先生还打我。”

“我弄不懂你，爱德华。你真是长不大。你是个软骨头。你永远当不了一个出色的国王。国王必须坚强。回你的房间去，明天早晨以前不许出来。”

“许多个日子我都是独自一人在自己房间里度过的，”爱德华后来写道，“我从未和其他孩子一起玩过，我也没有朋友。我住在英国最漂亮的房子里，却总是感到寂寞、悲伤。我每天只是在吃饭的时候才见我母亲一面，父亲每星期见三四面，但他们从不给我爱。我害怕他们，在他们看来，我做的每件事都不对。”





2The Prince of Wales


The Prince of Wales

In the spring of 1911 King George called Edward into his room and said:

'Next month I'll make you Prince of Wales and these are your clothes for the ceremony.'

The King opened a small cupboard and Edward started to cry. 'But father,' he said, 'I'm sixteen years old now. I can't wear soft shoes and a skirt. I'll look like a girl. Why can't I dress like other people?'

'Because you're different and special,' his father replied, 'and one day you'll be King.'

Edward cried for the next two days, but there was nothing he could do.

And so, on 10th June 1911, the family drove to Caernarvon Castle in North Wales and the ceremony began.

The King put a small gold crown on Edward's head. There was music and dancing and the crowd began to shout.

The new Prince of Wales closed his eyes. 'I feel terrible,' he said. 'Can we go home now?'

'Not yet,' the King replied. 'The people want to see you.'

Edward walked to the front of the castle and looked down at the crowd. He was shaking and his face was red.

'Smile, Edward,' the King said. 'You are happy!'

A few hours later the family were driving back to Windsor. 'Wasn't that a lovely day!' Queen Mary said.

Edward took off his shoes and looked out of the window. 'Never again,' he thought. 'Never again!'

ceremony n . 仪式。

ceremony

cupboard n . 柜子，橱柜。

cupboard

dress v. put clothes on (oneself or sb. else) . 穿衣服。

dress

crown n . 王冠。

crown

crowd n. a large number of people gathered together . 群众，人群。

crowd

shake v. move quickly up and down and to and fro . 抖动。

shake

lovely adj. very pleasant 愉快的。

lovely

take off 脱掉。

take off

never adv. not at any time . 决不。

never





2 　威尔士亲王


1911年春天，乔治国王把爱德华叫到自己的房间，说：

“下个月我要封你为威尔士亲王，这是你要在典礼上穿的衣服。”

国王打开一个小柜子，爱德华哭了起来。“可是父亲，”他说，“我现在已经16岁了。我不能穿软鞋和裙子。那会使我看上去像个女孩子。为什么我不能穿得像其他人一样？”

“因为你和他们不一样，你是特别的，”他的父亲回答，“有朝一日你会成为国王，”

接下来的两天，爱德华哭个不停，但他没有办法。

就这样，1911年6月10日，王室成员驱车前往北威尔士的卡那封城堡，典礼开始了。

国王把一顶小号的金冠戴在爱德华的头上。现场有音乐和舞蹈，人群欢呼起来。

而新封的威尔士亲王却闭上了眼睛。“我觉得很难受，”他说，“现在我们可以回家了吗？”

“还不能，”国王回答，“人们想看看你。”

爱德华走到城堡前部，俯视人群。他浑身颤抖，脸涨得通红。

“笑一笑，爱德华，”国王说，“你应该高兴！”

几小时后，全家人驱车回到温莎。“多么愉快的一天呀！”玛丽王后说。

爱德华脱下鞋子，向窗外望去。“我再也不要这样了，”他想，“永远不！”





3The Royal Star


The Royal Star

After a year at Oxford University, Edward went to fight in the First World War. He wrote:

I lived in a house with twenty-five other soldiers. At night we talked about our lives and our families. It was very interesting.

I could speak freely to different people—rich and poor, young and old. But I also saw the blood and noise of war.

One day in 1916 my driver took me to the town of Loos in Belgium. I got out of the car and walked to the top of the hill. Down below me there was heavy fighting and I felt very sad.

An hour later I returned to my car. I'll never forget what I saw. My driver was dead. While I was away, somebody shot him in the neck.

When the war finished in 1918, Edward returned to Buckingham Palace. One night he was talking to his father in the dining room.

'I don't understand why countries fight,' the Prince said. 'The war has finished, but nothing has changed. There are still millions of poor and hungry people. It's not right. Somebody must do something!'

'Well,' King George replied, 'you can't change the world if you sit by the fire. You must travel. Meet people. Talk to them. Listen to what they say. And then, when you are King, you can make the world a better place.'

And so, in 1920, Edward left England again. During the next five years he travelled 240000 kilometres and visited 45 different countries.

He saw India, Argentina, Nigeria, Mexico, New Zealand, Germany, and Japan. When he came to Toronto, in Canada, there were 500000 people in the streets to meet him. Everywhere thousands of people waited to see him — there were crowds of 190000 in Cape Town, 300000 in Paris, 500000 in New York, and 750000 in Melbourne.

'Edward is the first royal star,' one newspaper wrote, 'and he is now the most famous man in the world. In the old days princes were cold and bored. But Edward is different. He gets out of his car and walks down the street. Every two or three minutes he stops and speaks with the crowd. He laughs. He smiles. He shakes a thousand hands. He is a man of the people with a heart of gold.'

Oxford University 牛津大学。

Oxford University

interesting adj. holding the attention 有意思的，令人发生兴趣的。

interesting

freely adv. openly . 坦诚地，率直地。

freely

heavy adj. 激烈的。

heavy

away adv. from this or that place . 离开。

away

shoot sb. in the neck 打中某人的脖子。

shoot sb. in the neck

millions of 许许多多，无数。

millions of

travel v. go from place to place . 旅行，游历。

travel

India 印度。

India

Argentina 阿根廷。

Argentina

Nigeria 尼日利亚。

Nigeria

Mexico 墨西哥。

Mexico

New Zealand 新西兰。

New Zealand

bored adj. tired or uninterested . 厌烦的。

bored





3 　皇族明星


在牛津大学学习了一年之后，爱德华参加了第一次世界大战。他写道：

我和其他25名士兵住在一间房子里。晚上，我们就谈各自的生活和家庭。谈话十分有趣。

我可以和各种各样的人随意交谈——无论是富人还是穷人，年轻人还是老年人。但我也领略了战争的血腥和喧嚣。

1916年的一天，我的司机送我去比利时的卢斯镇。我下了车，往山顶走去。山下正进行着激烈的战斗，我心里十分难过。

一小时后，我回到汽车上。我永远也忘不了我看到的那一幕。我的司机死了。我离开的时候，有人射中了他的颈部。

1918年战争结束后，爱德华回到白金汉宫。一天晚上，他在餐厅里同父亲交谈。

“我不明白国家之间为什么要打仗，”王子说，“战争已经结束了，但一切依旧。还是有许许多多的人生活在贫困中，忍饥挨饿。这不公平。总得有人做些什么！”

“嗯，”乔治国王答道，“光坐在壁炉旁是不能改变世界的。你得出去走走。去和人们结识一下，与他们谈一谈，听听他们说些什么。这样，当你成为国王的时候，就可以把世界变得更美好。”

于是，1920年，爱德华再次离开英国。在随后的5年里，他行程达24万公里，访问了45个国家。

他访问了印度、阿根廷、尼日利亚、墨西哥、新西兰、德国和日本。当他到达加拿大多伦多时，受到50万人的夹道欢迎。每到一处，都有成千上万的人盼着一睹他的风采——在开普敦有19万人，在巴黎有30万人，在纽约有50万人，在墨尔本有75万人。

“爱德华是第一位皇族明星，”一家报纸这样写道，“他是目前全世界最有名的人。以前的王子都态度冷漠而厌烦。但爱德华不同。他从汽车里出来，在街上走。每隔两三分钟，他就停下来和人们交谈。他有时开怀大笑，有时面带微笑。他和上千人握手。他平易近人，有颗金子般的心。”





4The Meeting


The Meeting

In the autumn of 1930 Edward went to stay with his friends Lord and Lady Furness. This is how he described that weekend in a book called A King's Story:

On Saturday the weather was cold and windy. It was raining heavily so we could not ride our horses. We decided to stay in the house and have an early lunch with some of Lady Furness' friends.

At one o'clock Wallis arrived with her husband. She was beautifully dressed and she smiled all the time. She spoke with Lord Furness for a few minutes, and then Lady Furness brought her over to see me.

'Sir, I would like you to meet one of my dearest and sweetest American friends, Mrs Wallis Simpson.'

'How do you do, Mrs Simpson,' I said. 'Please come and sit down.'

Lady Furness left us and we began to talk.

I could see that Wallis was not feeling very well. She had a bad cold and her eyes were red. 'I'm afraid that our English houses aren't very warm,' I said. 'We don't have American central heating here.'

There was a long silence. Mrs Simpson turned her face and looked out of the window. Then she said: 'You have disappointed me, Sir.'

'And why is that?' I asked.

'Because everybody asks me about American central heating. I thought that the Prince of Wales would talk about something more interesting.'

I began to laugh.

'What's the matter, Sir?' Wallis asked. 'Have I said something wrong?'

'No,' I replied. 'I'm laughing because you didn't lie to me. You told me the truth.'

'But why is that funny? Doesn't everybody do that?'

'One day I'll be King of England,' I replied. 'And people are afraid of me. If I say that the sky is yellow, they say, "Yes, Sir, you are right". If I say that Wednesday is the first day of the week, they say, "Yes, Sir, you are right". And if I say that Scotland is bigger than Canada, they say, "Yes, Sir, you are right". But you told me that I was boring! You told me the truth. I like that!'

There was another silence and then Wallis began to laugh. 'Can I say one more thing, Sir?'

'Yes, Mrs Simpson, what is it?'

'It's your trousers, Sir.'

'My trousers?'

'Yes, Sir. They are black and your shoes are brown.' These two colours don't look right together.

I stood up and looked in the mirror. 'Yes, Mrs Simpson, you're right. I look very strange. The next time we meet, I will be better dressed.'

When lunch was ready, we walked through into the dining room. I sat at one end of the table and Wallis sat at the other end. I was watching her very carefully. I thought how beautiful her hands were. She began talking to Lady Furness and then, a few minutes later, she turned and smiled at me. I fell very happy.

After lunch Wallis came over to say goodbye. 'My husband and I have to leave now, Sir. We're going to another Party in London.'

I wanted to speak to her but I could not find the right words. I don't know why. We shook hands and Wallis walked away.

I went into the next room and sat down near Lady Furness. 'Tell me about Mrs Simpson,' I said.

'What would you like to know?' she asked.

'Everything!' I said.

'Then perhaps, Sir, you would like to walk in the garden. We can talk more freely there.'

We stood up and left the house by the back door. We walked slowly through the trees, and Lady Furness told me about Wallis...

weekend n. the end of a week . 周末。

weekend

windy adj. 风大的。

windy

all the time 一直，始终。

all the time

sweet adj. lovable . 可爱的，迷人的。

sweet

have a bad cold 患了严重的感冒。

have a bad cold

central heating 中央供暖系统。

central heating

silence n. the state of not speaking or making a noise . 缄默，无言。

silence

disappoint v. fail to fulfill the hopes of (a person) . 使……失望。

disappoint

laugh v . 笑。

laugh

lie v. say sth. that one knows to be untrue 撒谎。

lie

truth n. the true facts 实话，事实。

truth

funny adj. causing laughter . 有趣的，可笑的。

funny

Scotland 苏格兰。

Scotland

Canada 加拿大

Canada

right adj. 适当的，恰到好处的。

right

mirror n . 镜子。

mirror

strange adj. 奇怪的。

strange

carefully adv. 专注地，用心地。

carefully

say goodbye 告别。

say goodbye

shake hands 握手。

shake hands

by prep. through . 经，由。

by

through prep. 穿过。

through





4 　相识


1930年的秋天，爱德华去他的朋友弗内斯勋爵夫妇那里小住。在《一个国王的故事》一书中，他是这样描述那个周末的：

星期六，天气很冷，刮着风。雨下得很大，所以我们无法出去骑马。我们决定待在屋里，早点开午饭。与我们共进午餐的是弗内斯勋爵夫人的一些朋友。

1点钟，沃利斯和她的丈夫来了。她穿得很漂亮，始终面带微笑。她与弗内斯勋爵谈了几分钟，然后弗内斯勋爵夫人把她带到我面前。

“殿下，我想介绍您认识我的一位最可爱、最甜美的美国朋友，沃利斯·辛普森夫人。”

“您好，辛普森夫人，”我说，“请过来坐坐。”

弗内斯勋爵夫人走开了，我们交谈起来。

我看得出，沃利斯不太舒服。她得了重感冒，眼睛红红的。“恐怕我们英国的房子不够暖和，”我说，“我们这儿没有美国的中央供暖系统。”

接着是长长的一段沉默。辛普森夫人转头向窗外望去。然后她说：“您让我感到失望，殿下。”

“为什么？”我问。

“因为每个人都问我美国中央供暖的事儿。我想，威尔士亲王准会谈些比较有趣的事。”

我大笑起来。

“怎么了，殿下？”沃利斯问，“我说错什么了吗？”

“没有，”我回答，“我笑是因为你没对我说谎。你讲了真话。”

“可这有什么可笑的？难道大家不都这样吗？”

“有朝一日我会成为英国的国王，”我答道，“所以人们都怕我。如果我说天是黄的，他们会说，‘对，殿下，您说得对。’如果我说星期三是一周里的第一天，他们会说，‘对，殿下，您说得对。’如果我说苏格兰比加拿大还要大，他们会说，‘对，殿下，你说得对。’可是，您却告诉我，我令人乏味！您讲了真心话。我喜欢这样！”

又是一阵沉默，然后沃利斯笑了起来。“我能再说一件事吗，殿下？”

“可以，辛普森夫人，什么事？”

“是您的裤子，殿下。”

“我的裤子？”

“是的，殿下。您的裤子是黑色的，鞋却是棕色的。这两种颜色配在一起有点儿不协调。”

我站起身，照了照镜子。“不错，辛普森夫人，您说得对。我看上去真奇怪，等我们下次见面时，我会穿得更得体些。”

午餐准备好了，我们走进餐厅。我坐在桌子一头，沃利斯坐在另一头。我仔细地打量她。我想，她的手多美呀！她开始和弗内斯勋爵夫人谈话，几分钟后，她转过头来向我微笑。我觉得很高兴。

午餐后，沃利斯过来向我道别。“我和我丈夫现在得走了，殿下。我们要去伦敦参加另一个聚会。”

我想对她说点什么，可一时找不到合适的话。我不懂为什么会这样。我们握了握手，沃利斯走了。

我走到隔壁房间里，坐在弗内斯勋爵夫人身旁。“给我讲讲辛普森夫人的事。”我说。

“您想知道什么？”她问。

“她的一切！”我说。

“那样的话，殿下，也许您会愿意去花园里走走。我们在那儿谈起来会比较自由些。”

我们起身从后门走出去。我们漫步在树丛中，弗内斯勋爵夫人给我讲起了沃利斯的事……





5Wallis


Wallis

This is how Lady Furness described Mrs Simpson's early life to Edward:

Wallis was born in Baltimore. She never knew her father. He died when she was five months old. But her mother was a strong and loving woman, and Wallis was a happy child.

When she was twenty, she married a man called Winfield Spencer. For the first few years they were happy together. But one day Winfield lost some money in the street. He was very angry. When he came home, he took a bottle of whisky from a cupboard and began to drink.

That night he hit Wallis in the mouth. She screamed and he hit her again. There was blood on her face and she was shaking like a leaf. 'Please, Winfield,' she said. 'No more.'

But Winfield took her arm and pulled her up the stairs. 'You're my prisoner,' he shouted at her, 'and you're not going to leave.' Then he pushed her into the bathroom and locked the door.

The next morning Wallis went back to her family. 'I can't stay with him,' she said. 'I want a divorce.'

'Poor Wallis,' Edward said. 'But what happened next, Lady Furness?'

'Well,' said Lady Furness, 'a few months later she met a fine man called Ernest Simpson. He's quiet, but interesting. They got married and they now live in a beautiful flat in the centre of London.'

'And are they happy?' asked Edward.

Lady Furness looked at the Prince and smiled. 'I don't know, Sir,' she said. 'I don't know.'

During the next two years the Prince saw Wallis once or twice a week. They had the same friends, and they often met at parties.

'Mrs Simpson knew a lot about life,' Edward once said. 'She loved books, food, people, and travel. She was very beautiful and her eyes were full of fire. She was friendly and easy to talk to and, after a while, I opened up my heart. We had no secrets. I told her everything. And that's how it all began.'

'His eyes were always sad,' Wallis said about Edward. 'And sometimes he looked like a child — so young, so quiet, so weak. He had no real friends. Perhaps people were a little afraid of him. But he was a warm and kind man. When he talked to me, I felt my heart jump. I wanted to be alone with him, but I knew that wasn't possible. Did the Prince love me in those early days? No, I don't think so. But each time we met, we just felt closer and closer.'

In June 1933 Edward gave a birthday party for Wallis, and during the next few months he visited the Simpson's flat in London almost every day.

One evening, the Prince asked Wallis and Ernest to go skiing in Austria. 'I'm sorry, Sir,' Mr Simpson replied. 'I have to go to America on business. But perhaps Wallis and her aunt can come with you.'

'We went to Kitzbühl as friends,' Wallis wrote later, 'but when we came home, we were in love. And a few months later the Prince asked me to marry him. It was just like a dream!'

Baltimore 巴尔的摩（美国马里兰州港市）。

Baltimore

loving adj. showing or expressing love . 钟爱的，充满爱的。

loving

bottle n . 瓶子。

bottle

whisky n . 威士忌酒。

whisky

scream v. give a sharp cry because of pain or fear . 尖叫。

scream

leaf n . 叶子。

leaf

prisoner n . 囚徒。

prisoner

lock v. fasten with a lock . 锁住。

lock

flat n . 公寓。

flat

once n. one time . 一次。

once

twice n. two times . 两次。

twice

secret n. sth. kept hidden or known only to a few . 秘密。

secret

look like 看上去像。

look like

possible adj. that can be done, exist or happen 可能存在或发生的。

possible

during prep. 在……期间。

during

ski v . 滑雪。

ski

go skiing 去滑雪。

go skiing

go to some place on business 去某处出差。

go to some place on business





5 　沃利斯


下面就是弗内斯勋爵夫人给爱德华讲述的辛普森夫人早年的生活：

沃利斯出生在巴尔的摩。她从不认识自己的父亲。她才5个月大，父亲就去世了。她母亲是个坚强而充满爱心的女人，沃利斯童年很幸福。

她20岁时与一位名叫温菲尔德·斯潘塞的人结了婚。在婚后的最初几年里，他们在一起很幸福。可有一天，温菲尔德在街上丢了钱。他很恼怒。回到家，他从柜子里拿出一瓶威士忌，喝了起来。

那天晚上，他扇了沃利斯一记耳光。她尖叫起来，他又打她。她脸上都是血，身体像一片叶子一样颤抖着。“求求你，温菲尔德，”她说，“别打了。”

但温菲尔德拽起她的一只胳膊，一直把她拖到楼上。“你是我的囚犯，”他对她吼道，“你别想走。”然后他把她推进浴室，锁上了门。

第二天早晨，沃利斯回到娘家。“我不能和他在一起生活了，”她说，“我要离婚。”

“可怜的沃利斯，”爱德华说，“可是后来呢，弗内斯勋爵夫人？”

“后来，”弗内斯勋爵夫人说，“几个月后她认识了一位叫欧内斯特·辛普森的好人。他很少说话，但很风趣。他们结了婚，现在住在伦敦市中心一套漂亮的公寓里。”

“那他们在一起快乐吗？”爱德华问。

弗内斯勋爵夫人看着王子笑了。“我不知道，殿下，”她说，“我不知道。”

在后来的两年里，王子每星期都能见到沃利斯一两次。他们有共同的朋友，所以经常能在聚会上碰面。

“辛普森夫人生活阅历丰富，”爱德华有一次说，“她爱看书，喜爱美食，关爱他人，也喜欢旅行。她非常漂亮，眼里总是充满热情。她待人友善，同她谈话很轻松，没多久我就敞开了心扉。我们之间没有秘密。我对她无所不谈。一切就是这样开始的。”

“他的眼神总是那么忧伤，”沃利斯这样描述爱德华，“有时他看起来像个孩子——那么年轻，那么温文尔雅，那么脆弱。他没有真正的朋友。也许人们有点儿怕他。但他是一个热心而善良的人，当他对我说话时，我能感觉到自己的心在跳。我想和他单独在一起，但我知道那是不可能的。王子在与我初识的那些日子里爱我吗？不，我想他不爱。但每次我们相见，都感到彼此更接近了。”

1933年6月，爱德华为沃利斯举办了一个生日聚会，在那以后的几个月中，他几乎天天都去辛普森夫妇在伦敦的公寓拜访。

一天晚上，王子邀请沃利斯和欧内斯特一起去奥地利滑雪。“对不起，殿下，”辛普森先生回答，“我得去美国出差。不过，也许沃利斯和她姨妈能和您一同去。”

“我们去基特普尔时是朋友，”沃利斯后来写道，“但返回时已经相爱了。几个月后王子便向我求婚，这真像是一场梦！”





6The King is Dead! Long Live the King!


The King is Dead! Long Live the King!

In January 1936 Edward went to Windsor for a few weeks. He was tired of town life and he wanted to work in his garden and ride his horses.

But then, one afternoon, there was a phone call from Queen Mary. 'Edward,' she said, 'you must come back immediately. Your father is very ill and I think he's going to die.'

When Edward arrived, he went straight to his father's room. He walked to the side of the bed and kissed his father's white face. The King opened his eyes and smiled. Then he took his son's hand and said: 'Be a good King, Edward. And be good to your mother.'

'Yes, father, I will.'

The King closed his eyes and did not speak again. Just after midnight he died.

Then Queen Mary took Edward's hand and kissed it. 'My child, you are now King,' she said softly. 'God be with you.'

His three brothers came to him, one by one, and they each kissed his hand. 'The King is dead. Long live the King.' they said.

At one o'clock Edward left the room to telephone Wallis. 'My father is dead,' he said.

'I'm so sorry, Sir.'

'I must stay here for a while,' Edward went on. 'But I'll phone you at the weekend. Nothing will change between you and me. I love you more than ever, and you will be my Queen.'

'Let's not talk about that now,' Wallis replied. 'You must go back to your family.'

'But you are my family, Wallis. You are everything to me. Goodnight. Sleep well.'

When Wallis put the phone down that night, she suddenly felt afraid. 'Edward is now King,' she thought, 'but what will happen to me?'

be tired of no longer interested . 对……感到厌倦。

be tired of

but then 然而。

but then

a phone call 电话。

a phone call

immediately adv. at once . 立刻。

immediately

straight adv. directly . 径直地。

straight

kiss v . 吻。

kiss

midnight n. 12 o'clock at night . 午夜，子夜。

midnight

long live ... ……万岁。

long live ...

go on continue without stopping . 继续。

go on

change v. to become different . 改变，变换。

change

ever adv. at any time (before) . 以前。

ever

everything n. the most important thing or person . 最重要者，至宝。

everything

suddenly adv. unexpectedly and quickly . 突然。

suddenly

afraid adj. full of fear . 害怕的，畏惧的。

afraid





6 　国王逝世！国王万岁！


1936年1月，爱德华去温莎小住几个星期。他厌倦了城市生活，只想侍弄侍弄自己的花园，骑骑马。

然而，一天下午，王后玛丽打来电话。“爱德华，”她说，“你必须马上赶回来。你父亲病得很厉害，我想他快不行了。”

爱德华一赶到，便径直去了父亲的房间。他走到床边，吻了吻父亲苍白的脸。国王睁开眼睛，微微一笑。他拉住儿子的手，说：“做个出色的国王，爱德华。要好好待你的母亲。”

“是，父亲，我会的。”

国王闭上眼睛，再没说什么。午夜刚过，他就去世了。

玛丽王后握住爱德华的手，吻了吻。“我的孩子，现在你是国王了。”她温柔地说，“愿上帝与你同在。”

他的3个弟弟先后走过来，吻了他的手。“国王逝世了，国王万岁！”他们说。

1点钟，爱德华离开父亲的房间，去给沃利斯打电话。“我父亲去世了。”他说。

“我很难过，殿下。”

“我必须在这儿待一段时间，”爱德华接着说，“但周末我会给你打电话的。什么也不能改变你我之间的事。我比任何时候都更爱你，你将成为我的王后。”

“现在我们还是不要谈这些，”沃利斯回答，“你必须回到你的家庭里。”

“可你就是我的家庭啊，沃利斯。对我而言，你就是一切。晚安。睡个好觉。”

那天晚上，沃利斯放下电话时，突然觉得很害怕。“爱德华现在是国王了，”她想，“但我会怎样呢？”





7The Church


The Church

In the spring of 1936, Mrs Simpson wrote a Letter to her husband.

'Dear Ernest,' she wrote. 'You have been very kind to me. You are a good and strong man. But I must tell you that our marriage is finished. I am in love with the King and I want a divorce. Don't be angry. There is nothing you can do. I'll never forget you, but I have to be free.'

Ernest replied immediately: 'Your letter arrived this morning. I will do what you ask, but I'll never stop loving you. And if you need me, I'll always be here.'

That night the King and Wallis met at a small restaurant in Piccadilly. Edward read Ernest's letter again and again. 'That's wonderful news,' he said. 'Nothing can stop us now!'

The next day, when Edward came down to breakfast, Gordon Lang, the Archbishop of Canterbury, was waiting for him.

'Good morning, Gordon,' the King said. 'How nice to see you again. And what can I do for you?'

For a minute the Archbishop said nothing. Then he opened a small black bag and took out three newspapers. 'I have come to see you about Mrs Wallis Simpson,' he began. 'The newspapers say that you want to marry her. Are these stories true, Sir?'

'Yes, Gordon, Wallis is going to be my wife.'

'But that's not possible,' the Archbishop replied. 'You know what the Church thinks about marriage and divorce. Divorce is wrong in the eyes of God!'

Edward smiled and then said: 'Can I ask you some questions about God, Mr Lang?'

'Yes, of course, Sir.'

'Is God happy when two people fall in love?'

'Yes, Sir, but...'

'And is God happy when two people fall in love and get married?'

'Yes, Sir, but...'

'And is God happy when two people fall in love, get married, and live happily together?'

'Yes, Sir, but...'

'Then, Archbishop, Wallis and I will make God very happy. We are in love, we'll get married, and we'll live together happily!'

'But you don't understand, Sir,' Mr Lang replied. 'The Church says that divorce is wrong. Mrs Simpson cannot leave Mr Simpson and then marry you. You must forget about her and find another woman. Please, Sir, I must ask you to think again.'

'That is not possible,' Edward said softly. 'When Wallis is free, I shall marry her.'

There was a long silence. The Archbishop looked down at the floor and shook his head. 'You're making a big mistake, Sir,' he said. 'The Church is very strong, and we will not have this woman as our Queen!'

Suddenly Edward stood up, his face red and angry. 'Thank you for coming,' he said. 'But I have nothing more to say. And I want to be alone.'

The Archbishop stood up to go, but then turned and touched the King's arm. 'Please, Sir, think again. The Church will be against you.'

'I don't care,' Edward replied. 'I have God on my side, and that is all I need. Goodbye, Mr Lang.'

church n . 教会。

church

finished adj. ended . 结束的。

finished

wonderful adj. unusually good 特别好的，极好的。

wonderful

breakfast n . 早饭。

breakfast

Archbishop 大主教。

Archbishop

Canterbury 坎特伯雷。

Canterbury

in the eyes of sb. 在某人看来，以某人的观点。

in the eyes of sb.

fall in love 爱上。

fall in love

get married 结婚。

get married

forget about stop thinking about sth. or sb. 忘掉，忘却。

forget about

softly adv. not loudly, gently . 温和地。

softly

mistake n. a wrong thought or act . 错误。

mistake

have sb. as... 允许某人成为……。

have sb. as...

against prep. in opposition to . 反对。

against

be on one's side （在吵架、争执、斗争等中）站在某人一方。

be on one's side





7 　教会


1936年春天，辛普森夫人给她丈夫写了一封信。

“亲爱的欧内斯特，”她写道，“你一直待我很好。你心地善良，性格坚强。但我不得不告诉你，我们的婚姻结束了。我爱上了国王，我想和你离婚。请不要生气。你无能为力了。我永远不会忘记你，但我必须得到自由。”

欧内斯特立刻回了信：“你的信是今早到的。我答应你的要求，但我永远不会停止对你的爱。如果你需要我，我随时都会帮忙。”

那天晚上，国王和沃利斯在皮卡迪里的一家小餐馆见了面。爱德华一遍又一遍地读欧内斯特的信。“这消息太好了，”他说，“现在没有什么能够阻碍我们了。”

第二天，爱德华下楼吃早饭的时候，发现坎特伯雷大主教戈登·朗正在等他。

“早上好，戈登，”国王说，“又见到您真好。我能为您做些什么？”

大主教沉默了片刻，然后打开一个小黑包，取出3份报纸。“我来见您是为了沃利斯·辛普森夫人的事，”他开口说，“报上说您要娶她为妻。这是真的吗，陛下？”

“是的，戈登，沃利斯将成为我的妻子。”

“但那是不可能的，”大主教说，“您知道教会对婚姻和离婚的看法。在上帝眼里，离婚是错误的！”

爱德华笑了，然后说：“我能问您一些有关上帝的问题吗，朗先生？”

“当然可以，陛下。”

“当两个人相爱时，上帝高兴吗？”

“高兴，陛下，但是……”

“两个人相爱并结婚，上帝高兴吗？”

“高兴，陛下，但是……”

“两个人相爱、结婚、在一起幸福地生活，上帝高兴吗？”

“高兴，陛下，但是……”

“那么，大主教，沃利斯和我会让上帝十分高兴的。我们相爱，我们要结婚，我们在一起生活会很幸福！”

“但您不明白，陛下，”朗先生说，“教会认为离婚是错误的。辛普森夫人不能离开辛普森先生，然后和您结婚。您必须忘记她，去找另一个女子。陛下，我请求您三思。”

“这是不可能的，”爱德华轻轻地说，“沃利斯一离婚，我就娶她。”

沉默了许久，大主教低头看着地板，摇了摇头。“您正在犯一个很大的错误，陛下，”他说，“教会是强有力的，我们不会让这个女人做我们的王后！”

爱德华刷地站起身，脸色通红，怒容满面。“谢谢您的来访，”他说，“但我没什么可说的了。我想一个人待着。”

大主教站起身要走，但又回过头来，拍拍国王的手臂。“陛下，请您再想想。教会会反对您的。”

“我不在乎，”爱德华回答，“上帝会站在我这边，除此之外我不需要别的。再见，朗先生。”





8The Storm


The Storm

In July and August Wallis and the King sailed the Mediterranean. They met Prime Minister Metaxas in Greece, Kemal Ataturk in Turkey, and King Boris in Bulgaria. But that summer is famous for Edward's clothes. On the journey from Athens to Istanbul, the King took off his shirt to get brown in the sun. It was hot, and ten minutes later he was asleep. So he did not see the young photographer who was now taking pictures of the King...

When Edward returned from the Mediterranean, there was a letter waiting for him.

It was from Mr Albert Thompson of Birmingham, who wrote: 'I saw a picture of you in the newspaper this morning and I felt very angry. I have never seen a King dressed as badly as you were! No shirt! And no tie, no socks, no hat... and in short trousers! How could you, Sir?'

Edward showed this letter to Stanley Baldwin, the Prime Minister. 'What do you think of this?' the King asked.

'Mr Thompson is right, Sir,' the Prime Minister replied. 'You want to be modern, but the people don't like it.'

Edward put the letter on the fire. 'And do you think that divorce is "modern", Mr Baldwin?'

The Prime Minister sat down. 'Yes, Sir,' he began, 'I've read about this Mrs Simpson. She has two husbands still alive. And you must understand what that means, Sir. She cannot marry a King.'

'But I cannot live without her,' Edward said.

'Then, Sir,' the Prime Minister replied, 'I can see there's a storm coming. I have talked to your family and to Archbishop Lang, and we will not have this woman as our Queen.'

That night the Prime Minister and the King spoke for many hours. There were hundreds of questions, but only one answer. And so, in the early hours of the next morning, Edward said:

'You tell me that Wallis cannot marry a King. So there is only one thing that I can do. I will give the crown to my brother, and leave England. I must follow my heart. You tell me that it's a crime to fall in love. You tell me that it's wrong to be happy. How strange this country is!'

An hour later Edward telephoned Wallis. 'The Prime Minister says that a storm is coming,' Edward said. 'So I want you to go away.'

Wallis packed her bags and left for France. Then Edward went to see his mother.

It was a sad, strange, and angry meeting. 'Do you know what you are doing?' the Queen asked. 'Look out of that window. Outside this palace there are 400000000 people who call you King. They need you. And you will leave all this for Mrs Simpson?'

'Yes, mother, I will. I'm in love.'

'Love?' Queen Mary shouted. 'You're a King! You must love your country first!'

'But I'm also a man,' Edward said softly, 'and there's nothing that I can do.'

That afternoon the King telephoned Winston Churchill, one of his closest friends.

'I have some sad news,' Edward began. 'Last night Mr Baldwin came to see me. I have decided to go away next week.'

'Do you mean on holiday, Sir?'

'No, Winston, I'm leaving England. I'm never coming back. George will be King.'

'But that's not right, Sir. You're a free man. You must stand and fight.'

'No,' the King said. 'I have seen war and it's a terrible thing. I don't want to fight again.'

'But the people love you. And they want Wallis to be Queen.'

'Perhaps they do,' Edward replied. 'But she cannot be Queen. My enemies are stronger than I am. I am just a sailor. And when the winds change, the sea moves and it takes my boat away.'

storm n. a rough weather with wind, rain, and often lightening . 风暴。

storm

the Mediterranean 地中海。

the Mediterranean

Prime Minister 首相

Prime Minister

Greece 希腊。

Greece

Turkey 土耳其。

Turkey

Bulgaria 保加利亚

Bulgaria

tie n . 领带。

tie

socks n . 袜子。

socks

read about 阅悉，读到。

read about

alive adj. being living . 活着的。

alive

mean v. represent (a meaning) . 表示（意义）。

mean

crime n. a bad immoral act . 不道德的行为。

crime

pack v. put things into a bag, box, etc. for travelling or storing . 把……打包，装箱。

pack

leave for some place 动身去某地。

leave for some place

close friend 密友。

close friend

decide v. make up one's mind . 决定，下决心。

decide

holiday n. a period of rest from work . 假期。

holiday

be on holiday 度假。

be on holiday

terrible adj. causing great fear or terror . 可怕的，令人恐惧的。

terrible

sailor n . 海员，航海者。

sailor

take away 移去，带走。

take away





8 　风暴


7月和8月，沃利斯和国王游历了地中海。他们在希腊会见了梅塔克萨斯首相，在土耳其会见了卡迈勒·阿塔蒂尔克，在保加利亚会见了博里什国王。但那个夏天最著名的事情莫过于爱德华的着装风波了。在从雅典前往伊斯坦布尔的旅途中，国王脱去衬衫做日光浴。天气很热，十分钟后他就睡着了。所以他没有注意到，一名年轻的摄影师正在给国王拍照……

爱德华从地中海回国后，有一封信正等着他。

信是伯明翰的阿尔伯特·汤普逊先生写来的，他写道：“今天早上，我在报上看到一张您的照片，我很生气。我从未看到一个国王穿得如此糟糕！居然没穿衬衫！没打领带，没穿鞋，没戴帽子……还穿着短裤！陛下，您怎么能这样？”

爱德华把信交给首相斯坦利·鲍德温看。“您觉得这封信怎么样？”国王问。

“汤普逊先生是对的，陛下，”首相回答，“您想赶时髦，可人民不喜欢这样。”

爱德华把信烧掉。“那么，鲍德温先生，您觉得离婚‘时髦’吗？”

首相坐了下来。“是的，陛下，”他开口说，“我读了关于这位辛普森夫人的事。她有两个丈夫，他们还活着。陛下，您必须明白这意味着什么。她不能嫁给一个国王。”

“但没有她我无法生活。”爱德华说。

“那么，陛下，”首相回答，“看得出一场风暴就要来了。我已经与您的家庭成员及朗大主教谈过，我们不会让这个女人做我们的王后。”

那天晚上，首相与国王谈了好几个小时。涉及的问题很多，但答案却只有一个。于是，第二天凌晨时分，爱德华说：

“您告诉我沃利斯不能嫁给国王。那么，我能做的只有一件事。我将把王位让给我的弟弟，然后离开英国。我必须依从自己的心。你告诉我与人相爱是罪恶。你告诉我幸福是错误的。这个国家多么奇怪啊！”

一小时后，爱德华打电话给沃利斯。“首相说，一场风暴就要来了，”爱德华说，“所以我想让你离开这儿。”

沃利斯收拾了行装，启程去法国．然后爱德华去见母亲。

这次会面伤感、奇特，而又充满火药味。“你知道自己在做什么吗？”王太后问，“向窗外看看吧。宫殿外有4亿人叫你国王。他们需要你。而你却要为了辛普森夫人抛弃这一切？”

“是的，母亲。我爱她。”

“爱？”玛丽王太后喊道，“你是国王！你首先要爱自己的国家！”

“但我首先是一个男人，”爱德华轻轻地说，“我无能为力。”

当天下午，国王给自己的一位密友温斯顿·邱吉尔打电话。

“我有坏消息要告诉你，”爱德华说，“昨晚，鲍德温先生来见我。我决定下周离开这儿。”

“您是说去度假吗，陛下？”

“不是，温斯顿，我要离开英国。永远也不再回来。乔治将成为国王。”

“但这样不行，陛下。你是一个自由人。你必须坚决同他们战斗。”

“不，”国王说，“我见过战争，那太可怕了。我不想再同谁打仗，”

“但是人民热爱你。而且他们希望沃利斯做王后。”

“也许是这样，”爱德华说，“但她不能当王后。我的敌人比我强大。我只是一名水手。风向一转，海水就会把我的船卷走。”





9The Woman I Love


The Woman I Love

A few days later Mr Churchill came to sec Edward at Buckingham Palace. At first the King was quiet. Then he said: 'This is my last night in England, Winston. I love this country. I wanted to be a modern, kind King. I wanted to change the world, but they stopped me. And now I have to leave.'

It was ten o'clock. Edward stood up and walked over to the window. In the dark streets below there were hundreds of people. They were singing and calling his name: 'Edward, Edward, we Love Edward!' they shouted. 'Long live the King! Long live love!'

Suddenly the King turned to Mr Churchill. 'Why is this happening to me, Winston?' he cried. 'What have I done wrong?'

He sat down and put his head in his hands. There was a silence in the room, but through the open window came the shouting from the street. 'Long live Edward! Long live love! Long live Edward! Long live love!'

Mr Churchill came over and put his hand on the King's arm. Edward looked up. 'Thank you, Winston,' he said. 'You were a good friend to me.'

'Thank you, Sir. And you were a good King.'

At ten o'clock the next morning the telephone rang in Edward's bedroom.

'They're ready for you now, Sir,' a voice said.

The King walked slowly down the stairs. In front of him there was an open door. The family were waiting for him. His mother sat near the window, dressed in black. His brothers stood beside her. 'How close they are!' the King thought.

On a small table in the centre of the room there was a piece of paper. Edward sat down and read these words:

I, Edward the Eighth, King of Great Britain, King of India, King of Australia, King of New Zealand, King of Canada, King of Kenya, King of Nigeria, King of Burma, King of Malaya, King of Singapore, and King of thirty-two other countries, have today given the crown to my brother George.

God be with him and all his people.

10th December 1936.

Edward took a pen and wrote his name at the bottom of the page. Then he stood up and kissed his brother's hand.

'I never wanted this to happen,' George said. 'This is the worst day of my life.'

Edward walked over to his mother. 'Before I kiss you,' she said, 'there are some things that I want to say. I have never understood you, child. This morning you were a King. But tonight, you'll run from England like a thief. Alone. Angry. Afraid. You think that you're free. But you're not. You cannot be free.

'Everyone needs their family. Everyone needs their home. And tonight you have lost both those things.

'I love you. I am your mother and nothing can change that. But if you marry that woman, you will break my heart. Go now. It is all very sad.'

Edward kissed Queen Mary's hand. Then he turned and walked away.

The next day Edward returned to Windsor Castle. He went into a small, cold room at the top of the building. From there, he spoke on BBC radio to Britain and the world.

This is what he said:

Tonight, for the first time, I can say a few words to you. Earlier today I gave the crown to my brother George. He is now your King. I will soon leave this country and travel to France. My heart is with Wallis and I cannot live without the woman I love.

I don't know what will happen to me. Perhaps I will never see England again. But think of me tonight when I sail across the sea.

God be with you. Long live King George!

Edward left Windsor Castle and got into a large black car. It was now midnight and it was just beginning to rain.

'Take me away as quickly as you can,' he said. The car moved off into the darkness and the rain.

'What a night!' said the driver. 'I think the sky is crying, Sir.'

At 1.30 a.m. they arrived at Portsmouth. Edward got out of the car and a voice said: 'The King is here!'

Edward stopped and looked out across the open sea. There was a thin, cold smile on his face. 'King?' he said. 'No, I am not the King. I am just a man in love.'

Then he turned and walked onto the ship and into the night.

modern adj. 新式的，新派的。

modern

stop v. prevent . 阻止，妨碍。

stop

walk over 走过去，走过来。

walk over

long live love 爱情万岁。

long live love

come over （从远处）过来。

come over

centre n. a middle part or point . 中心。

centre

Kenya 肯尼亚。

Kenya

Burma 缅甸。

Burma

Malaya 马来亚。

Malaya

Singapore 新加坡。

Singapore

bottom n. the lowest part . 底，底部。

bottom

thief n. a person who steals . 小偷。

thief

break one's heart 使某人伤心。

break one's heart

return v. come on go back . 回来，归去。

return

top n. the highest part or point . 顶，上端，上部。

top

BBC 英国广播公司。

BBC

word n. a short speech or conversation . 话。

word

perhaps adv. possibly; maybe . 也许；可能。

perhaps

across prep. from one side to the other side (of) . 横过，从……的一边到另一边。

across

move off 离去，出发。

move off

darkness n. the state of being dark . 黑暗。

darkness

open sea 公海，外海。

open sea

thin adj. 淡淡的。

thin





9 　我爱的女人


几天后，邱吉尔先生来白金汉宫拜访爱德华。开始，国王沉默不语。然后他说：“温斯顿，这是我在英国的最后一个晚上了。我爱这个国家。我想做一个跟得上时代的、仁慈的国王。我想改变这个世界，但他们阻止了我。现在，我不得不离开。”

10点了。爱德华站起身，走到窗前。夜幕中，下面街道上站了好几百人。他们唱着歌，叫着他的名字：“爱德华，爱德华，我们爱爱德华！”他们喊着，“国王万岁！爱情万岁！”

国王突然转向邱吉尔先生。“温斯顿，为什么这会发生在我身上？”他喊道，“我做错了什么？”

他坐下来，双手抱着头。屋里一片寂静，但街上的叫喊声从打开的窗户传进来。“爱德华万岁！爱情万岁！爱德华万岁！爱情万岁！”

邱吉尔先生走上前，把手放在国王的胳膊上。爱德华抬起头。“谢谢你，温斯顿，”他说，“你是我的好朋友。”

“谢谢您，陛下。您是位出色的国王。”

第二天上午10点，爱德华卧室里的电话响了。

“他们准备好了，正在等您，陛下。”一个声音说。

国王缓缓走下楼梯。在他面前，有一扇敞开的门。全家人都在等他。他的母亲坐在窗户旁，身穿黑衣。他的弟弟们站在她身旁。“他们之间是多么亲密呀！”国王想。

屋子中央有一张小桌子。上面放了一张纸。爱德华坐下来，读到下面的话：

我，爱德华八世，英国国王、印度国王、澳大利亚国王、新西兰国王、加拿大国王、肯尼亚国王、尼日利亚国王、缅甸国王、马来亚国王、新加坡国王，以及其他32个国家的国王，今天把王位交给我的弟弟乔治。

愿上帝与他同在，与他的臣民同在。

1936年12月10日。

爱德华取出一支笔，在这页纸的下部签了自己的名字。然后站起来，吻了吻弟弟的手。

“我从未期望过这种事发生，”乔治说，“这是我一生中最糟糕的一天。”

爱德华走到母亲身边。“在我吻你之前，”她说，“有些话我想说。孩子，我一直都不理解你。今天早晨你还是国王。但今晚，你就要像小偷一样逃离英国，孤零零一个人，愤愤不平，忐忑不安。你以为自己自由了，但你没有。你永远也不会自由。”

“每个人都需要自己的家庭。每个人都需要自己的家园。但今晚，这两样你都失去了。

“我爱你。我是你的母亲，这是什么都改变不了的。但如果你娶了那个女人，就会伤透我的心。现在走吧。这太让人伤心了。”

爱德华吻了王太后玛丽的手。然后他转身走了。

第二天，爱德华回到了温莎城堡。他走进城堡顶部一间狭小阴冷的房间。在那里，他通过BBC的广播向英国和全世界讲了话。

下面就是他所说的：

今晚，我第一次有机会向你们讲几句话。今天早些时候，我把王位让给了我的弟弟乔治。现在，他是你们的国王了。我不久将离开这个国家去法国。我的心和沃利斯在一起，没有我爱的女人，我无法生活。

我不知道我将来会怎么样。也许我再也看不到英国了。但是，今晚我跨越海峡时，请大家想着我。

愿上帝与你们同在。乔治国王万岁！

爱德华离开温莎城堡，坐进一辆黑色大轿车。时值午夜，天下起了雨。

“带我离开这儿，越快越好。”他说。汽车驶入黑夜和雨幕中。

“这是怎样的一个晚上啊！”司机说，“我想天空都在哭泣了，陛下。”

凌晨1点30分，他们到达朴茨茅斯。爱德华走下汽车，只听一个声音叫道：“国王来了！”

爱德华停下脚步，向大海那边望去。他的脸上挂着淡淡的、冷漠的微笑。“国王？”他说，“不，我不是国王。我只是一个恋爱中的男人。”

然后，他转身走上船，消失在夜色里。





10The Wedding


The Wedding

The next morning Edward telephoned Wallis from Boulogne.

'Did you listen to me on the radio?' he asked.

'Yes, of course,' she said.

'And how did you feel?'

'I was sitting in my room alone,' Wallis said. 'And when I listened to your words, I felt so sad. I put my hands over my eyes and I just cried. I couldn't stop myself. You have left everything for me. But I love you so much, Edward, and with me, you'll be the happiest man in the world.'

'I am that already,' he replied. 'You are all that matters in my life.'

Edward married Wallis Simpson six months later, on 3rd June 1937. None of the Royal Family came to the wedding. Edward was forty-three. Wallis was forty-one. And they now took a new. name — the Duke and Duchess of Windsor.

A few weeks later Edward wrote to his brother King George. 'I was surprised that you didn't come to the wedding,' he wrote. 'But Wallis is now my wife and nothing can change that. As you know, we have a house in Paris. But France is not my home, and I want to live again at Windsor with Wallis by my side.'

'I'm sorry, Edward,' King George wrote back. 'But you know how I feel about that woman. I do not like her. I will never like her. You can live here, but Wallis cannot.'

'My brother', Edward said later, 'pushed me away like a dog. I will never forget what he did. And after that I decided that I didn't want my family. They didn't want Wallis, and so I didn't want them.'

wedding n. a marriage ceremony . 婚礼。

wedding

Boulogne 布伦（法国北部港市）

Boulogne

that 指“the happiest man in the world. ”

that

matter v. be important . 有重要性。

matter

by one's side 在……身边。

by one's side

later adv. 后来。

later

want v. need . 需要。

want





10 　婚礼


第二天早晨，爱德华从布伦打电话给沃利斯。

“你听到广播上我的讲话了吗？”他问。

“当然听了。”她说。

“你觉得怎么样？”

“当时我正一个人在自己房间里，”沃利斯说，“我听到你的讲话，觉得难过极了。我捂着眼睛哭了。我忍不住要哭。你为了我放弃了一切。爱德华，我是那么地爱你。和我在一起，你将成为世界上最幸福的男人。”

“现在我已经是了，”他答道，“你是我生命中的一切。”

6个月后，也就是1937年6月3日，爱德华和沃利斯·辛普森结了婚。皇室没有人出席婚礼。爱德华时年43岁。沃利斯41岁。他们现在有了一个新的称号——温莎公爵和夫人。

几个星期后，爱德华写信给他的弟弟乔治国王。“你没有出席婚礼，我觉得很惊讶。”他写道，“但现在，沃利斯是我的妻子了，什么也改变不了这一点。你知道，我们在巴黎有一所房子。但法国不是我的家，我想和沃利斯一起回温莎去住。”

“对不起，爱德华，”乔治国王回信说，“但你知道我对那个女人的看法。我不喜欢她。我永远不会对她有好感。你可以住在这儿，但沃利斯不行。”

爱德华后来说：“我的弟弟把我像狗一样推开了。我永远也不会忘记他的所做所为。从那以后，我确信我不需要我的家人了。他们不接受沃利斯，所以我也不接受他们。”





11Paris


Paris

For the next thirty years the Duke and Duchess lived in Paris. They gave parties and travelled round the world, but they never went back to Buckingham Palace.

When King George died in 1952 and Queen Mary died in 1961, Edward returned to Windsor for a few days. But Wallis stayed in France. 'It's your family,' she said. 'Not mine.'

But then, in 1966, the Duke and Duchess met Queen Elizabeth (the daughter of King George) at a small party in London. After thirty long years it was time to forget the past. Elizabeth kissed the Duchess and touched her arm. Then she turned to the Duke and said: 'Wallis is so beautiful, uncle. I think you're a lucky man.'

'That day Elizabeth was very kind to us,' Edward wrote later. 'But why couldn't my mother or my brother say those words to me?'

On BBC television in 1969 the Duke and Duchess spoke about their life together.

'Do you argue?' someone asked them.

'No, not really,' the Duchess replied. 'But there's one thing about my husband that I really don't like. He is always late. It doesn't matter if he's meeting a queen, a president, or a film star. He can never arrive on time. I don't know why. I have tried to change him, but it's just not possible.'

The Duke smiled and touched her hand. 'I know that I'm often late,' he said. 'But on our wedding day, I arrived at the church twenty minutes before you. I was early and you were late.'

'Yes, that's true,' the Duchess said. And they both laughed.

'You could see real love in their eyes,' one newspaper wrote. 'They were on television, but they forgot about the cameras and the millions of people who were watching. They were just two people in love.'

The Duchess was famous for her jewellery. 'After my husband,' she once said, 'I love jewellery more than anything else in the world.' And after thirty-five years with the Duke she had hundreds of pieces, which came from all over the world.

'I have never met a more beautiful woman than Wallis,' Edward wrote, 'and I love giving her presents. She has given me so much happiness. I buy her jewels to say "thank you".'

In May 1972 the Duke became ill. When the doctor arrived, he listened to Edward's heart and then said: 'How many cigarettes do you have a day, Sir?'

'About forty or fifty,' the Duke replied. 'But please don't ask me to stop. I've smoked for sixty years and I cannot change now.'

That night Edward called Wallis into the room. 'I feel very tired,' he said. 'And I'm afraid. I love you. I have been very happy with you, and you have been a wonderful wife. When I die, I want you to take my body back to Windsor. Will you do that for me?'

'Yes, of course,' she said. And they both began to cry.

The Duke of Windsor died one hour later with Wallis by his side.

Three days later. a blue aeroplane arrived in Paris. Wallis went back to England with the Duke's body and, for the first time in her life, she entered Buckingham Palace.

A week later the Duchess returned to France, and for the next fourteen years she lived alone in Paris. The big house was dark. The doors were locked and she did not go out.

In the afternoons she sat in the dining room with Edward's love letters. 'They were so beautiful,' she said. 'I read them again and again.'

But then, in 1986, Wallis became ill. She went to a small hospital near the house, and a few days later she died. 'Without Edward,' she once wrote, 'my life was empty.'

She was buried in England next to her husband at Windsor. 'It's a strange thing,' one newspaper wrote. 'When they were alive, the Duke and Duchess could never live in Britain. It was only in death that they could be there together.'

give a party 举行聚会。

give a party

daughter n. one's female child . 女儿。

daughter

past n. what happened in time before the present . 往事。

past

touch v. press with slight force . 轻摸，碰。

touch

lucky adj. having good luck . 有好运的。

lucky

argue v. disagree with words, fight with words . 争吵。

argue

president n. head of the government in many modern states that do not have a king or queen . 总统。

president

real adj. true . 真正的。

real

camera n. an apparatus for taking moving pictures . 摄影机。

camera

famous adj. very well known . 著名的，驰名的。

famous

piece n. a single thing . （一）件。

piece

all over everywhere . 到处，处处。

all over

present n. a gift . 礼物。

present

cigarette n . 香烟。

cigarette

tired adj. 累的，疲倦的。

tired

aeroplane n . 飞机

aeroplane

body n . 尸体。

body

love letter 情书。

love letter

empty adj. without purpose, meaning . 空虚的，无意义的。

empty

bury v. place in a grave . 埋葬。

bury





11 　巴黎


在以后的30年里，公爵和夫人住在巴黎。他们举行各种聚会，周游世界，但从未回过白金汉宫。

爱德华分别在1952年乔治国王去世时，以及1961年王太后玛丽去世时，回温莎待过几天。沃利斯则留在法国。“那是你的家庭，”她说，“不是我的。”

但是，1966年公爵和夫人在伦敦的一个小型聚会上见到了伊丽莎白女王（乔治国王的女儿）。事隔30年，该忘记过去了。伊丽莎白吻了公爵夫人，碰了碰她的胳膊。然后她转向公爵，说：“沃利斯真美，伯父。我觉得您真幸运。”

“那天，伊丽莎白对我们很和气，”爱德华后来写道，“但为什么我的母亲和弟弟就不能对我说这些话呢？”

1969年，在BBC电视节目里，公爵和夫人谈起他们的婚姻生活。

“你们吵架吗？”有人这样问他们。

“不，不真吵，”公爵夫人回答，“但我丈夫有一点我确实不喜欢。他总是迟到。无论是要会见女王、总统，还是电影明星，他从不准时赴约。我不知道为什么。我曾试图改变他，但就是不行。”

公爵微笑着拍拍她的手。“我知道自己常常迟到，”他说，“可我们举行婚礼那天，我比你早20分钟赶到教堂。我早到了，而你却迟到了。”

“对，这倒是真的。”公爵夫人说，他俩都笑了。

“在他们的眼中，你可以看到真正的爱，”一家报纸如此写道，“他们在接受电视采访，但他们忘记了摄像机，忘记了几百万观众在注视着他们。他们只是两个相爱中的人。”

公爵夫人因她的珠宝而出名。“除了我丈夫，”她有一次说，“这世界上我最爱的莫过于珠宝了。”与公爵一起生活35年后，她拥有了来自世界各地的几百件珠宝。

“我从未见过比沃利斯更美的女人，”爱德华写道，“我喜欢送礼物给她。她给了我那么多快乐。我给她买珠宝，以表达谢意。”

1972年5月，公爵病倒了、医生赶来后，听了听爱德华的心脏，问道：“您一天吸几支烟，先生？”

“大约四五十支，”公爵回答，“但请别让我戒烟。我已经吸了60年烟，现在已经改不了了。”

那天晚上，爱德华把沃利斯叫进房间。“我觉得很累，”他说，“也很害怕。我爱你，和你在一起我很快乐，你是个出色的妻子。我死后，你要把我的遗体送回温莎。你会为我做这件事吗？”

“会，当然会。”她说。然后两个人都哭了。

1小时后，温莎公爵溘然长逝，沃利斯一直陪伴在他身旁。

3天后，一架蓝色飞机到达巴黎。沃利斯护送公爵的遗体回到了英国，这是她平生第一次踏进白金汉宫。

1周后，公爵夫人回到法国。在这以后的14年里，她独自一人住在巴黎，把自己锁在那所幽暗的大房子里，足不出户。

每天下午，她就坐在餐厅里，读爱德华写的情书。“它们是那么美，”她说，“我读了一遍又一遍。”

然而，1986年，沃利斯病倒了。她住进离家不远的一家小医院，几天后便去世了。“没有爱德华，”她曾写到，“我的生活一片空虚。”

她被葬在英国温莎她丈夫的墓旁。“这真是件奇怪的事，”一家报纸写道，“公爵和夫人活着的时候不能住在英国。只有死后，他们才得以一起住在那儿。”





12Long Live Love!


Long Live Love!

In 1970, two years before his death, Edward said:

There are some people who think that I was wrong to give away my crown. But they don't understand true love.

When I was young, I lived in Buckingham Palace. I could have anything that I wanted. But I wasn't happy because my heart was empty.

Then I met Wallis and everything changed. For half of my life I have lived here with the most beautiful woman in the world. And she is everything to me.

When I sit in my garden with the Duchess by my side, I sometimes think about my early life. I remember the days alone in my bedroom. I remember the teacher who hit me with a stick. I remember the war and my travels around the world. And then I remember the crowds of people below my window, who shouted: 'Long live love!'

On my last night in London I spoke with Winston Churchill. In the middle of our conversation he said: 'I think, Sir, that the best things in life are free.' I have never forgotten those words. And now, many years later, I understand what they mean. You cannot buy happiness. And you cannot buy love.

To be happy deep inside your heart is the most wonderful thing in the world. I have been a lucky man. And so I say:

'Thank God for Wallis, and LONG LIVE LOVE!'

give away 失掉，丧失。

give away

remember v. call back into the mind . 记起，忆及。

remember

conversation n. a talk . 谈话，交谈。

conversation

free a. without payment of any kind . 免费的。

free

deep adv. far down or in . 深地。

deep

inside prep. within . 在内。

inside

thank sb. for sb. (or sth.) 因……而感谢……

thank sb. for sb. (or sth.)





12 　爱情万岁！


1970年，即爱德华去世前两年，他曾说过：

有些人认为我放弃王位是错误的。但他们不懂得真正的爱情。

我年轻的时候住在白金汉宫。我想要的东西都能得到。但我并不快乐，因为我的内心是空虚的。

后来我遇到了沃利斯，一切都变了。我的后半生都和这位世界上最美丽的女人在这里一起度过。她就是我的一切。

我和公爵夫人一起坐在花园里时，有时会想起自己早年的生活。我想起自己孤零零待在卧室里的那些日子。我想起那个用棍子打我的老师。我想起战争和周游世界的旅行。我想起那些聚集在我窗下的人群，他们高呼着：“爱情万岁！”

我离开伦敦前的最后一个晚上和温斯顿·邱吉尔做过一次长谈。谈话中，他说：“陛下，我认为生活中最好的事情是无偿的。”我从未忘记这句话。现在，许多年之后，我才理解了它的涵义。幸福是买不到的。爱情也是买不到的。

内心深处的幸福是世界上最美妙的。我是一个幸运的人。所以，我要说：

“感谢上帝给了我沃利斯，爱情万岁！”





Exercises


A Checking your understanding

Chapters 1 and 2 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

Chapters 1 and 2

1 Edward was born in 1894.

2 He was a very happy child.

3 He was afraid of his father.

4 He went to school with other children.

5 Edward became Prince of Wales in 1912.

Chapters 3 and 4 Write answers to these questions.

Chapters 3 and 4

1 What did Edward do during the First World War?

2 How was Edward different from other princes?

3 Why was Wallis disappointed when Edward began to talk to her?

4 Why did most people lie to the Prince of Wales?

Chapters 5 and 6 Find answers to these questions.

Chapters 5 and 6

1 Where was Wallis born?

2 Who locked her in a bathroom?

3 How many brothers did Edward have?

4 Why was Wallis afraid when Edward became King?

Chapters 7 and 8 Who said these words in the story?

Chapters 7 and 8

1 'I am in love with the King and I want a divorce.'

2 'If you need me, I'll always be here.'

3 'Divorce is wrong in the eyes of God.'

4 'I have God on my side, and that is all I need.'

5 'You want to be modern, but the people don't like it.'

6 'You must love your country first.'

Chapters 9 and 10 Who in the story...

Chapters 9 and 10

1 ... came to see Edward on his last night as King?

2 ... spoke on BBC radio from Windsor Castle?

3 ... became King after Edward?

4 ... cried when she heard Edward's voice on the radio?

Chapters 11 and 12 Find answers to these questions.

Chapters 11 and 12

1 Where did the Duke and Duchess live after they got married?

2 Who was late at their wedding?

3 How long did the Duchess live after Edward died?

4 What did Edward call 'the most wonderful thing in the world'?

B Working with language

1 Complete these sentences with information from the story.

1 In April 1987, three hundred people....

2 Mrs Namiki bought a gold ring because....

3 Prince Edward lived in the most beautiful house in England but....

4 After a year at Oxford University, Prince Edward went ....

5 On the journey from Athens to Istanbul....

6 Mr Albert Thompson was angry because....

7 When Queen Elizabeth Ⅱ met Wallis in 1966, ....

8 After Edward died, Wallis....

2 Put these sentences in the right order. Check your order with chapter 5.

In 1933 Wallis and her aunt went skiing in Austria with Edward.

One night Winfield hit her and locked her in the bathroom.

And then she married Ernest Simpson.

A few months later Edward asked Wallis to marry him.

Wallis was born in Baltimore.

So she divorced him.

She married Winfield Spencer when she was twenty.

C Activities

1 Write a letter to the author of the book and say what you like and what you don't like about it.

2 'The best things in life are free.' Do you agree? Write a short essay and say why you agree or don't agree.

3 How much do you know about the British Royal Family? Work with a partner and ask and answer questions about Queen Elizabeth Ⅱ, Prince Charles, and Princess Diana.

京权图字 01-97-0332

Published by arrangement with Oxford University Press for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

© Oxford University Press 1991

Oxford is a trademark of Oxford University Press

只限中华人民共和国境内销售，不包括香港特别行政区、澳门特别行政区及台湾省。不得出口。

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

亡灵岛／（英）埃斯科特（Escott, J.）著；许永寿译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，1998.6（2014.8 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：Dead Man's Island

ISBN 978-7-5600-1383-1

Ⅰ．亡…　Ⅱ．①埃…②许…　Ⅲ．①英语—语言读物②短篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2007）第009182号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 任小玫

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 1998年6月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-1383-1

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





简　介


一个人有了隐私又不想让别人知道时，我们就可以说他“衣橱里有具骷髅”。大部分人都做过一些不光彩的事，卡罗尔·桑德斯也不例外。她有具“衣橱里的骷髅”，不管走到哪儿都摆脱不了。这使她越来越沮丧。当然，这件不光彩的事正在慢慢地毁坏着她的生活。

后来她遇到一位更有隐私的人。他的隐私需要整个一个岛来遮掩。也许最有可能由卡罗尔发现他的隐私。但是如果她想探明他的隐私，他会怎么样呢？他会乐意把他的隐私告诉她吗？或者他会生气，非常生气吗？这全取决于他藏在锁着的房间中的那具“衣橱里的骷髅”究竟是什么——而卡罗尔要打开那扇锁着的门。

本书作者约翰·埃斯科特是一位经验丰富的作家，现在英格兰南部的博恩默思生活和工作。





1Coming to England


Coming to England

My name is Carol Sanders.

I live in England now, but when I was younger, I lived in Hong Kong. My father was a businessman there and my mother worked as a secretary. We lived in Hong Kong for seven years.

I was happy at school, with lots of friends, and we had a good time. I liked pop music—the Rolling Stones, David Bowie and Jake Rosso were my favourites.

Jake Rosso was my favourite singer. He died in a car accident the year I left school, but I listened to his pop records all the time. I had hundreds of pictures and photos of him on my bedroom wall.

Then one day in winter when I was seventeen, things began to go wrong for me.

My father went to Australia on business. I loved him very much and didn't like him going away.

'Come home quickly,' I always said to him.

He was in Australia for two weeks. Then, on the day of his journey home, an aeroplane from Sydney crashed into the sea just south of Hong Kong. Everybody on the plane died.

I heard about the plane crash on television. At first, I did not think about my father. Then I remembered he was flying back from Sydney on that day.

'Oh, no!' I cried.

I telephoned the airport but they did not know the names of all the passengers then.

'Perhaps my father didn't get that plane,' I thought. 'Oh, please! Please!'

My mother was at work and I called her on the telephone. She came home quickly and we went to the airport and waited for news.

Later, we learned my father was on the plane.

'It's not true!' I shouted.

But it was true, and I began to cry.

I cried for weeks and weeks. I spent many days alone in my room. I was lonely and sad and I wanted to die, too.

I stopped going out with my friends. I didn't want to see other people. I stopped listening to Jake Rosso's records, and took his pictures off my bedroom wall. I didn't listen to music or watch television. Nothing mattered any more.

Then I stopped crying. I stopped feeling sad and began to feel angry.

'Why did it happen to him?' I asked my mother. 'Why do the best people die? Jake Rosso. My father.'

'I... I don't know, Carol,' my mother said. She was unhappy, too.

At the time of the plane crash, I was a student at college. I enjoyed the work and college life very much, but after my father's death I stopped doing my work at the college. I began to go out with some new friends. They were different from my other friends, and my mother didn't like them.

'They're bad people, Carol,' she told me. 'They do dangerous things.'

'They're exciting,' I said. 'And I like them.'

I knew she was angry but I didn't care. But then I learned my new friends took drugs, and I began to take drugs, too. It was wrong and stupid, I know that now, but I was unhappy and angry.

The police came to the college to arrest some of the students. They didn't arrest me, but I had to leave the college. It was a bad time.

My mother was very unhappy with me. 'What am I going to do with you, Carol?' she said.

'I'm sorry,' I told her.

'We'll go back to England,' she said. 'You can find a college there. Perhaps you can be happier in England.'

'All right,' I said. 'I want to forget what's happened. I want to forget what I've done and begin a new life, be a new person.'

A month later, we came back to England. We lived in London, in a hotel. It was strange, at first, with all the red buses and everybody speaking English. It was the beginning of the summer, three months before college began in the autumn. London was full of tourists.

We looked at all the famous buildings — Buckingham Palace, the Tower of London. And we went to restaurants and theatres in the evenings. It was interesting and exciting and I began to forget the bad times in Hong Kong.

'I'm pleased we came to London,' I told my mother.

But after a few weeks, she said, 'You need to find a college, Carol. You must go on studying. And I need a job.'

That evening, we looked in the newspapers.

'What about this?' I said. I showed my mother a job in the newspaper.

SECRETARY

for the summer months

for the summer months

on a small private island in Scotland.

on a small private island in Scotland.

Live with the family in a big house.

Live with the family in a big house.

Interesting work and good pay

Interesting work and good pay

for the right person.

for the right person.

Phone Greta Ross. Telephone number 071...

Phone Greta Ross. Telephone number 071...

'Well, that sounds interesting,' said my mother. 'I'd like to work as a secretary on an island in Scotland. It's a beautiful country, Carol, and you can go to a college there in the autumn.'

'And it's a place to live for the summer,' I said. 'Hotels are expensive.'

My mother telephoned Greta Ross.

'Come and see me tomorrow,' Greta Ross told her. 'Come to Savoy Hotel at eleven o'clock.'

I went to Savoy Hotel with my mother. It was big and expensive, bigger than our hotel, and in the centre of London.

'Mum needs this job,' I thought. 'And a private island in Scotland is a nice place to live. Perhaps I can forget what's happened if I go there.'

'Room twenty-two,' said the woman at the hotel desk. 'Go on up. Mrs Ross will see you now.'

Greta Ross was waiting for us. She was about thirty years old and very beautiful. She wore an expensive red dress and her hair was very long and dark.

'This is my daughter, Carol,' said my mother.

'Hallo, Carol,' said Greta Ross.

'Hallo,' I said.

'Carol is eighteen years old,' said my mother. 'Can she come with me, if I get the job? Perhaps she can help in the house or in the gardens. She likes gardening. She's studying farming at college.'

'Perhaps,' said Greta Ross. 'There's a small farm on the island.'

'I'd like to work on the farm,' I said.

Greta Ross looked at my mother. 'How long did you live in Hong Kong, Mrs Sanders?'

'Seven years,' answered my mother. 'My husband died in a plane crash last year, so we've come back to live in England.'

'where did you live before Hong Kong?'

'We lived in India for three years.'

Then Greta Ross took my mother into a room and asked her more questions. I waited outside.

'Greta Ross is nice,' I thought. 'I hope my mother gets the job.'

Soon after, the door opened and my mother came out. She was smiling.

Greta Ross said, 'Please wait here for a minute, Mrs Sanders. I want to make a phone call.' She went back into the room, and closed the door.

I was sitting on a chair near the door, and I could just hear Greta Ross's voice speaking on the phone.

'I think I've found someone,' she was saying. 'She has a daughter, but the girl can work in the garden or on the farm... Don't worry, they've been away from England for ten years... It'll be all right, I tell you... Don't worry.'

After a few minutes, Greta Ross put down the phone and came out of the room.

'You've got the job,' she told my mother.

My mother was pleased. 'Thank you,' she replied.

I was pleased, too, but now I was worried about that phone call. I didn't understand it.

pop music 流行音乐。

pop music

favourite n. 最喜爱的人或物。

favourite

accident n. something, esp. something unpleasant that happens by chance. 事故；横祸；灾难。

accident

record n . 唱片。

record

crash v. (cause to) have a sudden and noisy accident. 使（飞机）坠毁；（汽车）碰撞；n. a voilent accident. （飞机的）坠毁；（汽车的）碰撞。

crash

passenger n. a person travelling in a bus, boat or plane. 乘客；旅客。

passenger

(be) at work (be) doing something, esp. working. 在工作；在上班。

(be) at work

alone adv. & adj. without others. 独自；单独地（的）。

alone

lonely adj. alone; without people. 寂寞的；孤独的。

lonely

different from unlike; not of the same kind. 与……不一样；与……不同。

different from

care v. feel interest, anxiety or sorrow. 在乎；（为……）操心或忧虑。

care

drug n. 毒品。

drug

arrest v. (the police) catch someone and take him to prison. 逮捕。

arrest

full of having plenty (of). 充满……（的）。

full of

tourist n. a person visiting places for pleasure. 游客。

tourist

Buckingham Palace 白金汉宫[英国王宫]。

Buckingham Palace

the Tower of London 伦敦塔。

the Tower of London

private adj. for one person or a small number of people only. 私人的。

private

dark adj. (of the skin, etc.) not fair, nearer black than white. （肤色等）深色的；黑色的。

dark

worry v. be anxious, uneasy. troubled. 焦虑；不安；烦恼；担心。

worry





1 　来到英格兰


我叫卡罗尔·桑德斯。

我现在住在英格兰，但我年轻时住在香港。我父亲在那儿经商而我母亲是个秘书。我们在香港住了七年。

我在学校很快乐，有许多朋友；我们玩得很愉快。我喜欢流行音乐——滚石乐队、戴维·鲍伊和杰克·罗索是我的至爱。

杰克·罗索是我最喜欢的歌手。我离校那年他死于一次车祸，但我一直在听他的流行歌曲唱片。我在我卧室的墙上贴了成百上千张有关他的画片和照片。

接着在我17岁那年冬季的一天，事情对我来说开始变糟了。

我父亲去澳大利亚出差。我非常爱他，不愿意让他离家在外。

“快点回家来，”我总是对他说。

他在澳大利亚待了两周。接着，在他要回程的那天，一架从悉尼起飞的飞机坠入香港正南部的海域。机上人员全部遇难。

我从电视上听到飞机失事的消息。起初，我并没有想到我父亲。后来，我想起来那天他正从悉尼乘机返回。

“啊，不！”我叫了起来。

我给机场打电话，但他们那时还不知道所有乘客的名字。

“或许我父亲没乘那架飞机。”我想，“啊，千万别乘！千万别乘那架飞机！”

我母亲当时正在上班，于是我给她打了电话。她很快回家；我们去机场并等待消息。

后来，我们得知我父亲正在那架飞机上。

“这不是真的！”我喊道。

但这是真的，我哭了起来。

我哭了好几个星期。好多天我独自一人待在房间里。我既孤独又伤心，我也想过去死。

我不再和朋友们出去玩了。我不想见别人。我不再听杰克·罗索的唱片了，还把他的图片从我卧室的墙上取了下来。我不听音乐了，也不看电视了。一切对我都不再要紧了。

后来我不哭了。我不再伤心了，而开始感到愤怒了。

“为什么这事让他碰上了呢？”我问妈妈，“为什么总是最好的人死呢？杰克·罗索。我爸爸。”

“我……我不知道，卡罗尔。”我妈妈说。她也不愉快。

飞机失事的时候，我正是个大学生。我当时很喜欢大学的学习和生活，但我父亲去世后我在大学不学习了。我开始和一些新结识的朋友出去玩。他们和我的其他朋友不一样，而且我妈妈不喜欢他们。

“他们不是正经人，卡罗尔。”她告诉我，“他们在干一些危险的事情。”

“他们令人感到兴奋。”我说，“而且我喜欢他们。”

我知道她生气了，可我不在乎。后来我得知我新结识的朋友们在吸毒，我也开始吸毒了。我现在知道那样做既错又蠢，可那时候我心情郁闷。

警察来大学抓了一些学生。他们没抓我，可我不得不离开那个大学。那段日子可真糟糕。

我妈妈对我很不高兴。“我拿你可怎么办呢，卡罗尔？”她说。

“对不起，”我告诉她说。

“我们回英格兰吧。”她说，“在那儿你可以找所大学上。在英格兰也许你会高兴些。”

“好吧。”我说，“我想把过去发生的事忘掉。我想把我所干的事忘掉，开始新生活，成为一个新人。”

一个月后，我们回到了英格兰。我们住在伦敦，待在一家饭店里。起初，一切都很新奇：公共汽车是红色的，人人都说英语。时值初夏，离秋季开学还有三个月。伦敦到处都是观光客。

我们参观了所有著名的建筑物——白金汉宫、伦敦塔。而且晚上我们去餐馆和剧院。这令人感兴趣、令人激动，我开始忘掉在香港的那些令人难受的时光。

“我真为我们来到了伦敦而高兴，”我对妈妈说。

但是过了几周之后，她说：“你得找所大学上，卡罗尔。你必须继续你的学业。我也需要个工作。”

那天傍晚，我们翻看了一下报纸。

“这工作怎么样？”我说。我给妈妈看了看报上登的一条招工消息。

招聘秘书启事

苏格兰一私人小岛上

夏季招聘秘书一名。

可与主人一家共享宽裕住所。

工作有趣，薪金丰厚，

诚聘合适人选。

有意者请与格里塔·罗斯联系。电话：071……

“嗯，听起来挺有意思的。”我妈妈说，“我愿意在苏格兰的一个岛上干秘书工作。那是个很美丽的地方，卡罗尔，而且你秋季可以在那儿上大学。”

“夏季也可以在那儿过。”我说，“饭店很费钱。”

我妈妈打电话给格里塔·罗斯。

“明天来见我吧。”格里塔·罗斯告诉她，“11点请到萨沃伊饭店来。”

我和妈妈一起去了萨沃伊饭店。这个饭店既大又贵，比我们住的饭店大，并位于伦敦的中心。

“妈妈需要这个工作。”我想，“而且苏格兰的一座私人岛屿还是个生活的好地方。我如果去那儿，也许就可以把过去发生的事情忘掉。”

“22号房间。”饭店服务台的女士说，“上楼去吧。罗斯夫人现在就可以接见您。”

格里塔·罗斯正等着我们。她大约30岁，很漂亮。她穿着一件很贵的红色连衣裙，头发很长很黑。

“这是我女儿卡罗尔，”我妈妈说。

“你好，卡罗尔。”格里塔·罗斯说。

“您好，”我说。

“卡罗尔18岁了。”我妈妈说，“如果我能得到这份工作，她可以跟着我吗？也许她能帮助做些家务活或干些园子里的活。她喜欢园艺。她正在大学学农业。”

“也许行吧。”格里塔·罗斯说，“岛上有个小农场。”

“我喜欢在农场里干活，”我说。

格里塔·罗斯看了看我母亲。“你们在香港住了多久，桑德斯夫人？”

“七年。”我妈妈说，“我丈夫去年因飞机失事去世了，所以我们回英格兰来住了。”

“住在香港之前你们待在哪儿？”

“我们在印度住了三年。”

然后格里塔·罗斯带我妈妈进了一个房间，又问了她一些问题。我在外边等着。

“格里塔·罗斯挺好的。”我想，“我希望妈妈能得到这份工作。”

过了不一会儿门开了，我妈妈出来了。她微笑着。

格里塔·罗斯说：“请在这儿等一会儿，桑德斯夫人。我想去打个电话。”她返回房间，并关上了门。

我坐在门旁的一把椅子上，正好能听到格里塔·罗斯打电话的声音。

“我想我已经找到了一个人。”她正在说，“她有个女儿，但这个女孩可以在园子或在农场干些活儿……别担心，她们离开英格兰已有10年了……不会出事的，我告诉你……别担心。”

过了一会儿，格里塔·罗斯挂上了电话并从屋里出来了。

“你得到了这份工作，”她告诉我妈妈说。

我妈妈很高兴。“谢谢您，”她说。

我也很高兴，可现在我对那个电话感到忧虑不安。我不明白它的意思。





2The Island


The Island

We went to Scotland the next day, first by plane, then by train. Greta Ross travelled with us.

I looked out of the train window and saw fields and villages and mountains. 'Mum is right,' I thought. 'Scotland is a very beautiful place.'

'You're going to be my husband's secretary,' Greta Ross told my mother. 'He's a businessman, but he never leaves the island. He does all his work by telephone and letter and computer. He invests money in companies, all over the world.'

'Do many people live on the island?' I asked.

'Not many,' said Greta Ross. 'You'll meet them soon.'

'Greta Ross is young,' I thought. 'Is her husband young, too? How can a young man buy an island? Is he very rich?'

After the train, we went on Mr Ross's boat, which took us out to the island. The boatman was a young man. He had dark hair and was brown from the sun.

'This is Tony,' said Greta Ross. 'He works for Mr Ross.'

'Hi,' said Tony.

Soon we were near the island. I could see the beaches and the cliffs. The boat slowed down.

'There are dangerous rocks around the island,' explained Tony. 'A lot of them are under the water and you can't see them. I have to be careful. But the rocks keep other boats away, and that pleases Mr Ross.'

'Why?' I asked.

Tony looked at Greta Ross but she wasn't listening. 'Mr Ross doesn't like visitors to the island,' Tony said in a quiet voice.

Then Greta Ross looked at us and Tony said no more.

'Why doesn't Mr Ross like visitors?' I thought. 'Has he something to hide?'

When we arrived on the island, my mother and I followed Greta up to the house. It was very big and there were trees all around it.

A woman was waiting inside the house.

'This is Mrs Duncan, Tony's mother,' said Greta. 'She's the housekeeper and her husband is the gardener. Mrs Duncan will take you up to your rooms. I'm going to tell Mr Ross you've arrived.'

The housekeeper was a little woman with short hair. She went up the stairs, and my mother and I went after her.

My room was next to my mother's. I looked out of the window and saw the garden at the back of the house. A man was working in the garden, near some trees. 'Is that Mr Duncan?' I thought. I looked between the trees and saw the sea. 'It's a beautiful house and a beautiful island.'

That evening, we had dinner with Mr and Mrs Duncan and Tony. We ate in the big kitchen.

'What happened to Mr Ross's last secretary?' asked my mother.

'She's in hospital,' replied Mrs Duncan. 'She's going to be away all summer.'

'Isn't Mrs Ross lonely here?' I said.

'No,' said Mrs Duncan. 'She likes painting a lot. She has a room upstairs and goes there to paint. She's very good. Sometimes she goes to different places on the island to paint pictures.'

We finished eating our meal. Soon after, Greta Ross came into the kitchen.

'Mr Ross wants to see you and your daughter now, Mrs Sanders,' she said. 'Follow me, please.'

We followed her through the house and into a big room. This was Mr Ross's office and he was sitting behind a desk.

I was surprised. He was a young man, about thirty. He had a moustache, short dark hair, and he wore glasses.

Mr Ross was speaking into the telephone. 'Who does he look like?' I thought. 'Is it Tony Duncan?'

'Mr Ross is talking to a business friend in New York,' said Greta. 'Please, sit down.'

While we waited, I looked around the office. There were three telephones, a computer, and lots of books and papers.

There was another door and I could see a smaller room, next to the office. There was a smaller desk and another computer in there.

Mr Ross finished speaking on the phone, then looked carefully at my mother and me. For a few seconds he didn't speak, and just watched us. Then he said, 'I'm pleased to meet you, Mrs Sanders. I need some help with my work. My secretary is in hospital, and there's a lot of work to do. Sometimes you'll have to work late at night, because of time differences in New York and Tokyo. Is that all right?'

'Yes, that's all right,' said my mother.

'Can you use a computer?'

'Yes.'

'Good.' He looked at me. 'Is this your daughter?'

'Yes, this is Carol,' said my mother.

'Hallo,' I said.

'Greta says you like gardening. There's a big garden here, so you can help Mr Duncan. And there's a farm. Dan and Stella Parks live in the farmhouse and work on the farm. You can help them, too. We have some animals. Some sheep, a few cows and chickens. And there's a horse called Smoke. He's grey, like his name. Can you ride?'

'Yes,' I said. 'I can ride a horse.'

'You can ride Smoke around the island, if you like.'

'I'd like that,' I said. 'Thank you.'

'And we grow vegetables and fruit,' he said. 'I work on the farm sometimes. I enjoy it.'

I smiled at him but he didn't smile back.

'Carol will enjoy working on the farm,' said my mother. 'Won't you, Carol?'

'Yes,' I said.

'Mr Ross looks sad,' I thought. 'But how did he get all his money? And why does he hideaway on an island?'

computer n. 电脑；计算机。

computer

invest v. put money into a business and get more money back later. 投资。

invest

beach n. seashore. 海滩。

beach

cliff n. the high, sharp side of a hill. 峭壁。

cliff

rock n. very big piece of stone. 岩石。

rock

you pron. (impersonal) one, anyone. （口语中可为无人称代词）一个人；任何人。

you

keep… away prevent ... from reaching. 使……不能靠近。

keep… away

housekeeper n. person who looks after a house. 管家。

housekeeper

paint v. make a picture with colours. 画。

paint

moustache n. the hair on a man's top lip. （上唇上的）胡子。

moustache

glasses n. round pieces of glass that you wear over the eyes to see better. 眼镜。

glasses

next to in the closest place to. 紧挨着。

next to

Tokyo n. 东京[日本首都]。

Tokyo





2 　岛屿


第二天我们就去了苏格兰，先乘飞机，后乘火车。格里塔·罗斯与我们同行。

我从火车车厢的窗子向外望去，看到了田野、村庄和群山。“妈妈说得对，”我想，“苏格兰是个非常漂亮的地方。”

“你就要当我丈夫的秘书了。”格里塔·罗斯告诉我妈妈说，“他是个商人，但他从来不离开这个岛。他通过电话、信函和电脑来干他所有的工作。他向遍布世界各地的公司投资。”

“许多人住在岛上吗？”我问。

“不多。”格里塔·罗斯说，“不一会儿你就能见到他们了。”

“格里塔·罗斯年轻。”我想，“她丈夫也年轻吗？一个年轻人怎么能买得起一座岛屿呢？他很有钱吗？”

下了火车，我们上了罗斯先生的船，那船带着我们出海向岛驶去。船夫是个年轻人。他长着一头黑发，皮肤晒成了棕色。

“这是托尼。”格里塔·罗斯说，“他为罗斯先生工作。”

“你好，”托尼说。

不久我们就离这个岛近了。我能看到海滩和峭壁了。船慢了下来。

“岛的四周都是危险的礁石。”托尼解释道，“许多礁石在水下，人看不见。我得很小心。但这些礁石使别的船不能靠近这个岛，那使罗斯先生感到很高兴。”

“为什么？”我问道。

托尼看了一下格里塔·罗斯，但她没在听我们说些什么。“罗斯先生不喜欢客人到岛上来，”托尼轻声说。

接着，格里塔·罗斯看了看我们，托尼便没再说什么。

“为什么罗斯先生不喜欢客人呢？”我寻思着。“难道他有什么事要遮遮掩掩吗？”

我们到了岛上之后，我和我妈妈随格里塔来到了那幢房子。它很大，四周都是树。

一个女人正在房子里等着我们。

“这是邓肯太太，托尼的母亲。”格里塔说，“她是女管家，她丈夫是园丁。邓肯太太将带你们上楼去你们住的房间。我去告诉罗斯先生你们已经到了。”

管家是个留着短发的小妇人。她上了楼，我和我妈妈随后跟着她。

我的房间就在我妈妈房间的隔壁。从窗子向外望去，我看到了房后的园子。有个人正在园子里干活，那儿旁边有些树。“那就是邓肯先生吧？”我想。我透过树林，看到了大海。“这房子漂亮，这岛也漂亮。”

那天傍晚，我们与邓肯夫妇和托尼一起进餐。我们在大厨房吃饭。

“罗斯先生的上任秘书发生了什么事？”我妈妈问道。

“她住院了。”邓肯太太回答说，“整个夏季她都将不在。”

“罗斯夫人在这儿不寂寞吗？”我说道。

“不寂寞。”邓肯太太说，“她非常喜欢画画。她楼上有个房间，她常去那儿画画。她这个人很好。有时她去岛上不同的地方画画。”

我们吃完了饭。不久之后格里塔·罗斯来到了厨房。

“罗斯先生现在想见见你和你的女儿，桑德斯夫人。”她说，“请跟我来。”

我们跟着她穿过房子来到一个大房间里。这是罗斯先生的办公室，他正坐在办公桌的后面。

我很惊讶。他是个年轻人，大约30岁。他留着胡子，长着黑色短发，并戴着眼镜。

罗斯先生正在打电话。“他看上去像谁呢？”我想。“像托尼·邓肯？”

“罗斯先生正在与纽约的一位商界朋友通话。”格里塔说，“请坐下吧。”

我们等着的时候，我打量了一下这间办公室。屋里有三部电话、一台电脑以及许多书本和文件。

办公室还有一个门，所以我可以看到紧挨着办公室的一个小一些的房间。那里面有一张小一些的办公桌，另有一台电脑。

罗斯先生打完了电话，然后仔细地看了看我妈妈和我。有那么片刻他默默不语，只是在打量我们。然后他说：“见到你们很高兴，桑德斯夫人。我需要人帮助处理我的工作。我的秘书正在住院，有许多事情要处理。由于纽约和东京都有时差问题，有时候你得在深夜工作。你看行吗？”

“行，那没什么。”我妈妈说。

“你会用电脑吗？”

“会用。”

“那很好。”他看了看我。“这是你女儿吗？”

“是，这是卡罗尔。”我妈妈说。

“您好，”我说。

“格里塔说你喜欢园艺。这里有个大园子，所以你可以给邓肯先生帮帮忙。这里还有个农场。丹·帕克斯和斯特拉·帕克斯住在农舍里并在农场干活。你也可以给他们帮帮忙。我们养了些动物。一些羊、几头牛和数只小母鸡。还有一匹叫'烟'的马。这匹公马是灰色的，跟它的名字一样。你会骑马吗？”

“会骑，”我说，“我会骑马。”

“如果你喜欢，你可以骑着'烟'在岛上转转。”

“那太好了。”我说，“谢谢您。”

“我们还种了蔬菜和水果。”他说，“我有时在农场里干些活。我喜欢干农活。”

我朝他笑了笑，可他没回敬我的笑。

“卡罗尔会喜欢在农场干活的。”我妈妈说，“是不是，卡罗尔？”

“是的，”我说。

“罗斯先生显得有些忧伤。”我想，“但是他怎么会有那么多钱呢？而且为什么他要隐匿在一个岛上呢？”





3The Photograph


The Photograph

I worked in the garden for the first two days. The weather was hot and sunny. I liked working with Mr Duncan, and he was pleased with my work.

'You're a good gardener,' he said.

'I've always liked gardening,' I said. 'But I'm studying at college to be a farmer.'

Sometimes I saw Greta Ross.

'She likes to be alone,' I thought. Once or twice I saw Greta go out with her painting things. She went up on the hills or down to the beach.

Mr Duncan took me to the farm and I met Dan and Stella Parks. They were very friendly.

'You can work on the farm for the next three days,' said Dan Parks. 'Mr Duncan says you're a good gardener. Are you a good farmer, too?'

I smiled at him. 'I am,' I said.

He smiled back.

So I worked on the farm with Mr and Mrs Parks. They were nice people. I helped with the cows and the chickens, and went up on the hills with Mr Parks and his dog to look after the sheep.

One afternoon I went out riding. Smoke was a big, lazy, friendly horse. I enjoyed riding and Smoke knew his way around the island very well. I learned new places to go to.

I rode along the cliff top and then in between some trees. When we came out of the trees, I saw the house from the other side. I tried to find the window of my room. Which one was it?

Suddenly, I saw a face at one of the windows. The face was looking at me. It was there for just a second or two, then it moved away quickly.

'Who was that?' I thought. 'Was it Mr Ross? And which room was it?'

I didn't see my mother very much that first week. She worked all day and in the evenings. She wrote letters to South America, Japan, Canada and Australia. Sometimes, she worked after I was in bed.

'Mr Ross works hard,' she told me. 'He invests money in many companies and countries. But it's not his money.'

'It's not?' I was surprised by this.

'No, it's his wife's money. And she bought the island. It's her island, her house, her farm. Everything belongs to her.'

'How strange! But why does Mr Ross always look sad? And why does he never leave the island?' I asked.

'I don't know,' said my mohter. 'He says he likes it here and likes working on his farm. It's strange, I know.'

Sometimes, when I finished work, I walked along the beaches or the cliffs. Or I went swimming in the sea. I liked swimming. Greta Ross often came to the beach to swim, but Mr Ross never came.

'Stay away from the rocks, Carol,' Greta Ross told me. 'They're very dangerous.'

'I will,' I said.

Sometimes I took my camera to the beach and took photographs of some of the boats that went by. I took photographs of the birds on the cliffs.

There were other small islands near our island, and boats with tourists stopped at them. But no boats stopped at our island. They kept away from the dangerous rocks. Tony was right. The island did not have visitors.

One day, I was walking back to the house, and had my camera with me. I stopped and looked at the big house. Mr Duncan was working in the garden in front of it. At first, he didn't see me.

'I'm going to take a photograph of the house,' I thought. 'The sun is in just the right place, and it will make a good picture.'

I looked at the building through my camera, and took the photograph. Mr Ross was coming out of a door. He was in my picture, too, and he looked angry.

'That's all right,' I thought. 'It's still a good photograph.'

But Mr Duncan was running across the grass. He came quickly up to me and said, 'Give me your camera.' He looked very worried.

'What's wrong?' I asked in surprise. I gave him the camera.

'Never take photographs of Mr Ross,' he said. And then he opened the back of my camera and took out the film.

'Hey! What are you doing?' I said. 'You'll spoil my film!'

But he didn't stop. 'Sorry,' he said, and he put the film into his pocket. 'But no pictures of Mr Ross. He doesn't like people to take pictures of him.'

Mr Ross was watching us. He saw the camera and he saw Mr Duncan take out the film, but he said nothing. Then he turned and went back into the house.

Later, I told my mother about Mr Duncan and the camera. 'He spoiled my film,' I said.

'I don't understand,' she said. 'Why did he do that?'

'I don't. know,' I said, 'but there's something strange about Mr Ross.'

About a week later, I finished work early one day and came back to the house. My mother was working in her small room, next to Mr Ross's office. Mrs Duncan was in the kitchen. Greta Ross was painting in her room upstairs.

I went to my room and began reading a book. I was sitting beside the window. After half an hour, I got tired of reading. I looked out at the rain, and the grey sea and rocks between the trees.

'My book isn't very interesting,' I thought.

I got up and went out of my room. I walked along the passage and turned a corner. Then I saw the door at the end of the passage. There was a large plant in a plant pot outside the door.

'Where does that door go?' I thought. 'I haven't seen it before.' I remembered the face at the window in my first week on the island. 'Perhaps it's the door to that room,' I thought.

I walked along to the door and turned the handle. The door didn't move. It was locked.

'What are you doing?' said a voice behind me.

I turned round quickly and saw Greta Ross. She looked angry.

'That room is private,' she said.

'I'm sorry,' I said. 'I didn't—'

'Stay away from there,' she told me.

I told my mother about the locked door.

'What's behind it?' I said. 'Is it a secret?'

'I don't know,' said my mother. 'It doesn't matter. Mr Ross can have locked rooms if he wants them.'

'I think he does have secrets,' I said. 'There's something strange about him. There's something strange about this island. Somebody isn't telling us something. Something important.'

My mother laughed. 'Stop playing detective, Carol,' she said.

lazy adj. moving slowly, unwilling to work. 悠闲的；懒散的。

lazy

it pron. 它；性别不明或无关紧要的人（动）物。

it

camera n. machine used to take pictures. 照相机。

camera

take photographs use a camera to take pictures. 照相；摄影。

take photographs

film n. 胶卷。

film

spoil v. hurt or damage something so that it is useless or not good. 弄坏；毁坏。

spoil

get tired of be bored with. 对……感到厌烦。

get tired of

passage n. narrow way in a building by which one goes to other rooms. 走廊。

passage

plant n. anything (e.g. flower, tree) that is growing. 植物。

plant

pot n. round container to put things in. 锅；盆。

pot

handle n. the part of a door that you hold to open it. 门把手。

handle

do v. 用以加重语气的助动词（需重读）。

do

detective n. person whose special job is to find out information that will make bad men be taken into prison. 侦探。

detective

play detective （在游戏中） 模仿侦探调查案件。

play detective





3 　照片


头两天我在园子里干活。天气晴朗而炎热。我很喜欢与邓肯先生一块儿干活，他对我干的活也很满意。

“你是个好园丁。”他说。

“我一向喜欢园艺。”我说，“但我现在正上大学，以便当个农夫。”

我有时见到格里塔·罗斯。

“她喜欢一个人独处。”我想。有一两次我看见格里塔带着画具出去了。她到山上或到海滩去。

邓肯先生带我到农场去，我见到了丹·帕克斯和斯特拉·帕克斯。他们非常友好。

“接下来的这三天你可以在农场干活。”丹·帕克斯说，“邓肯先生说你是个好园丁。你也是个好农夫吗？”

我朝他笑了笑。“是的。”我说。

他回笑了笑。

这样我就和帕克斯夫妇一起在农场干活了。他们是好人。我帮着照看奶牛和小母鸡，还和帕克斯先生及他的狗一起上山去照看羊群。

一天下午，我骑马出去。“烟”是一匹懒散而友善的大马。我喜欢骑马，“烟”对岛上的路很熟。我知道了些新的去处。

我骑马沿着峭壁顶部走，然后在树林中间穿行。当我们从树林中出来时，我看到了那幢房子的另一面。我想找出我房间的窗子。是哪一扇呢？

突然我看见一扇窗子旁有一张脸。那人正看着我。那人只在那儿待了一瞬间，接着很快就离开了。

“那是谁？”我想，“是罗斯先生吗？又是哪个房间呢？”

第一个星期我没怎么见到妈妈。她整个白天还有晚上都在工作。她给南美、日本、加拿大和澳大利亚写信。有时我睡了之后她还在工作。

“罗斯先生工作很努力。”她告诉我，“他给很多公司和国家投资。可那不是他的钱。”

“不是他的钱？”对此我很惊讶。

“不是他的，是他妻子的钱。并且是她买了这个岛。这是她的岛屿，她的房子，她的农场。所有的东西都属于她。”

“多奇怪呀！可为什么罗斯先生总显得那么忧郁呢？为什么他从不离开这个岛呢？”我问道。

“我不知道。”妈妈说，“他说他喜欢这儿，喜欢在他的农场里干活。我知道，这的确有点儿怪。”

有时干完活以后，我就沿着海滩或峭壁散步，或者去海里游泳。我喜欢游泳。格里塔·罗斯常到海边去游泳，但罗斯先生从来不去。

“离礁石远些，卡罗尔。”格里塔·罗斯告诉我，“它们很危险。”

“好吧。”我说。

有时我将照相机带到海边，照照过往的船只，照照峭壁上的鸟儿。

我们这个岛附近还有些其他的小岛，载着旅客的游船停靠在那里。但没有船在我们这个岛边停靠。船只都远离那些危险的礁石。托尼说的对，这个岛上没有客人来。

有一天，我正朝房子走回去，随身带着照相机。我停下来，看着这幢大房子。邓肯先生正在房子前面的园子里干活。起初，他没看见我。

“我来给这幢房子拍一个照吧。”我想，“太阳正在合适的位置，拍出来会挺不错的。”

我把镜头对准了房子，拍了一张。罗斯先生正好从门里出来。他也被拍了进来，他看上去一副生气的样子。

“那也没什么。”我想，“仍然是张好照片。”

但邓肯先生从草地上跑过来。他很快跑到我跟前说：“把相机给我。”他看起来很着急。

“怎么了？”我惊奇地问道。我把相机交给了他。

“决不许给罗斯先生拍照，”他说。然后他打开相机后盖，把胶卷取出来。

“嘿！你干什么呀？”我说，“你会毁了我的胶卷的！”

可他不停手。“对不起，”他说，并把胶卷装进了他自己的衣袋里。“可不许给罗斯先生拍照。他不喜欢别人给他照相。”

罗斯先生正看着我们。他看见了照相机，也看见了邓肯先生把胶卷取出来的过程，可是他什么也没说。然后他转过身就回到房子里去了。

过后，我把邓肯先生和照相机的事情告诉了妈妈。“他毁了我的胶卷。”我说。

“我不明白。”她说，“他为什么要那样做呢？”

“我不知道。”我说，“可罗斯先生这个人真有点儿古怪。”

大约一周之后，有一天我很早就干完活儿，回房子里去了。我母亲正在罗斯先生办公室旁边的她那个小房间里工作。邓肯太太在厨房。格里塔·罗斯在楼上她的房间里画画。

我去了自己的房间，开始读书。我坐在窗子旁。半个小时后，我读腻了。我向外望去，看外面的雨，看隐蔽在树木之间的灰蒙蒙的大海和岩石。

“我的书不很有趣。”我想。

我站起来走出房间。我顺着走廊走，拐了一个弯。然后我看见走廊尽头有一扇门。门外的花盆里有一株很大的植物。

“这门通哪儿呢？”我想。“我先前没见过它。”我记起了我到岛上的第一周看到的、那扇窗子旁的那张脸。“可能这就是通向那个 房间的那扇门，”我想。

我一直走到房门前，转了转门把手。门没动，是锁着的。

“你在干什么？”身后有人问我。

我赶紧转过脸，看到了格里塔·罗斯。她显得生气了。

“那是私人专用房间。”她说。

“对不起。”我说，“我不——”

“离那儿远点。”她对我说。

我把那扇锁着的门的事情告诉了我妈妈。

“那扇门后有什么？”我说，“是秘密吗？”

“我不知道。”我妈妈说，“那没什么关系。罗斯先生要是想的话，当然可以有锁起来的房间。”

“我想他一定有秘密。”我说，“他这个人有些古怪。这座岛有些奇怪。有人有什么事情瞒着咱们。是重要的事情。”

我妈妈笑了。“别玩侦探游戏了，卡罗尔。”她说。





4The Locked Room


The Locked Room

Two days later there was a storm in the middle of the night.

I was hot and I couldn't sleep. I got out of bed, went across to the window and looked out at the night. Black clouds hurried across the sky, and the trees moved wildly in the wind. The rain made a loud noise on the window.

I opened my window and put my head out into the wind and the rain. I looked at the other windows in the house. Most of them were dark. But one window had a light in it. 'Somebody isn't sleeping,' I thought. 'Which room is that?'

There were six windows between my window and the room with the light.

'And there are six doors between my room and the locked door!' I thought. 'That light is in the locked room. Somebody's in there!'

I put on my dressing-gown and went out of my room. The house was dark, and at first I couldn't see very well. I walked along the passage and turned the corner.

There it was, the locked room. And there was a light under the door !

I went nearer and heard noises.

'Somebody's moving about in the locked room,' I thought. 'Who is it?'

Then the light went off and the door opened.

I was afraid to move.

Somebody came out of the room, and into the dark passage. Lightning suddenly lit up the house, and I saw who it was.

'It's Mr Ross!' I thought. 'What was he doing in that room in the middle of the night?'

I didn't move and he didn't see me. He locked the door of the room carefully. He didn't put the key in his pocket, but hid it in the plant pot next to the door.

'He's coming along here,' I thought. 'I must get back to my room.'

And I ran back along the passage.

Mr Ross heard me. 'Who's that?' he called.

I didn't answer, but ran into my room and closed the door.

He came along the passage and stopped outside my door. Then he walked past and went on down the stairs.

I took off my dressing-gown and went back to bed. I was shaking because I was afraid.

'Now I know how to get into the locked room,' I thought. 'But what's in there?'

There was no storm in the morning, but it was still raining. I got up early and worked on the farm. There were eggs from the chickens and I put them in boxes. I helped to milk the cows and then took them out to the field.

Later, I went back into the house for breakfast. 'Did you sleep all right last night?' asked Mrs Duncan. 'Or did the storm wake you up?'

'I... slept all right,' I said. I didn't want to tell her about the light in the locked room, or about Mr Ross.

After breakfast, I went back upstairs. Mr Ross was talking on the telephone in his office. My mother was working at her desk. I knew that Mrs Duncan was in the kitchen and that Mr Duncan was working in the garden.

'Where's Mrs Ross?' I thought.

Then I looked out of the window and saw her with Tony Duncan. They were walking to the boat.

'He's taking her out in the boat,' I thought. 'Perhaps she's going to Edinburgh.'

The boat moved away from the island and I waited until it was out at sea. Then I opened the door of my room.

There was nobody in the passage and I ran along to the locked room. The key was still in the plant pot and I took it out. My hand was shaking.

Then I unlocked the door.

put on wear or place (something) on the body. 穿上。

put on

dressing-gown n. long, loose garment over night clothes. 晨衣。

dressing-gown

go off (of light) stop shining. 关（灯）；熄（灯）。

go off

lightning n. sudden, very bright light in the sky during a storm. 闪电。

lightning

light up make or become bright. 照亮。

light up

take off remove (a garment). 脱下；脱去。

take off

get into enter. 进入。

get into

milk v. take juice from (a cow). 挤牛奶。

milk

wake up (cause to) cease to sleep. 吵醒。

wake up

Edinburgh n. 爱丁堡[苏格兰首府]。

Edinburgh

unlock v. unfasten the lock of. 打开门锁。

unlock





4 　锁着的房间


两天后半夜里来了一场暴风雨。

我很热，睡不着。我下了床，走到窗边，望着窗外的夜色。乌云在天空中匆匆飘过，树在狂风中猛烈地摇摆。雨打在窗子上弄出了很大的响声。

我打开窗子，把头伸在风雨中。我看了看这幢房子的其他窗子。绝大部分窗子是黑的。但有一扇窗子里有灯光。“有人没睡。”我想，“那是哪个房间呢？”

我的窗子和那个亮着灯的房间之间隔六个窗子。

“而且我这个房间和锁着门的那个房间之间也隔六扇门！”我琢磨着。“那个亮着的灯就在那个锁着的房间里。那里面有人！”

我穿上晨衣，从我屋里走了出来。这座房子里很暗，起初我看得不怎么清楚。我顺着走廊走，拐了一个弯。

那儿就是那个锁着的房间。而且门下面露出了灯光！

我走近了些，听到了动静。

“有人在这个锁着的房间里走动。”我想。“是谁呢？”

接着灯熄了，门开了。

我没敢动。

一个人从屋里走出来，到了黑暗的走廊里。忽然一道闪电照亮了这幢房子，我看清了这个人是谁。

“是罗斯先生！”我想。“他半夜在那个房间里干什么呢？”

我没动，他也没看见我。他小心地锁上了门。他没把钥匙放入他的衣袋里，却把它藏在门旁的花盆里。

“他正往这儿来了。”我想，“我必须回我的房间去。”

于是我就顺着走廊往回跑。

罗斯先生听见我了。“谁？”他喊到。

我没回答，却跑进自己的房间，关上了门。

他顺着走廊过来了，在我的门外停了下来。然后他就走过去了，往前下了楼。

我脱下晨衣，回到了床上。我因害怕而直发抖。

“现在我知道怎么进入那锁着的房间了。”我想，“但那里有什么呢？”

早晨风暴停了，但雨还在下。我很早就起了床，在农场里干活。那儿有小母鸡下的一些蛋，我把蛋放在箱子里。我帮着给奶牛挤奶，然后把它们带到了外面的田野。

后来我回房子里去吃早饭。“昨天晚上睡得好吗？”邓肯太太问道。“还是暴风雨把你吵醒了？”

“我……睡得很好，”我说。我不想把锁着的那个房间里亮着灯的事或罗斯先生的事告诉她。

早饭后，我回到楼上。罗斯先生正在他的办公室里打电话。我妈妈正坐在她办公桌旁工作。我知道邓肯太太在厨房里而邓肯先生在园子里干活。

“罗斯夫人在哪儿呢？”我想。

接着我从窗子向外望去，看见她和托尼·邓肯在一起。他们正向一条船走去。

“他要用船送她出岛。”我想，“她可能去爱丁堡。”

船离开了这座岛；我一直等着，直到它出了海。然后我打开了我房间的门。

走廊里没有人，我跑到了那个锁着的房间前。钥匙还在花盆里，我把它拿了出来。我的手在颤抖。

然后我打开了门。





5A Dead Man


A Dead Man

I went into the room... and I was very surprised.

The room was full of strange things. Coloured shirts and suits. Three guitars. And there were posters and photographs on the walls.

I looked at the posters.

Jake Rosso's face looked down at me.

I looked at the dead Jake Rosso's pictures, and I remembered all the photographs on the walls of my room in Hong Kong. I could never forget that face — the face of my favourite singer.

Then, while I looked at his face, something strange happened. I began to see another face in the posters. An older face, and with a moustache, but the same face.

I saw the face of Mr Ross.

'No!' I said. 'It's not true!'

But it was, I knew it was.

'Mr Ross is... Jake Rosso !'

'No!' said a voice behind me.

I turned round and saw Mr Ross. He was standing in the doorway. He looked... afraid.

'I don't believe you!' I said.

'You have to believe me!'

I looked at the posters. 'Who is that, if it's not you?'

'It's Jake Rosso. He was... my brother.'

'That's not true!' I shouted. 'I don't believe you. Listen, Jake Rosso was my favourite singer — I had hundreds of photos of him. I still have all his records. I loved him, do you understand? Thousands of people loved him.'

'He's dead,' Mr Ross said quietly.

'No !' I shouted. 'You're Jake Rosso! You look different now, yes. You've got short hair, you've got a moustache now, and you wear glasses. But you're ... Jake... Rosso. You were my favourite pop star, so I know .'

Mr Ross said nothing, and watched my face.

'He doesn't know what to do,' I thought. 'He knows I don't believe him, and he's afraid.'

Then he said, 'It was you in the passage last night, wasn't it?'

'Yes,' I answered.

He looked angry. 'I was wrong to give your mother a job,' he said. 'I thought it was OK because you came from Hong Kong. And I needed help with my work. I needed a good secretary.'

'Does your other secretary know who you are?' I asked. 'Do the other people on the island know?'

Mr Ross didn't answer, but walked across to the window. He was thinking.

'What's he going to do?' I thought.

Then he turned round. 'OK, you're right. I... I am Jake Rosso.'

'I knew it !'

He looked worried and unhappy. 'Can you keep a secret? A very important secret?'

I thought for a minute, then I said, 'Yes, I can keep a secret.'

Then he told me:

'The other people on this island are my family.'

'Your family?' I said.

'Yes. My real name is James Duncan, and Mr and Mrs Duncan are my father and mother. Tony is my younger brother, and his wife, Lisa, is my secretary. It's she who's in hospital.'

'And Stella and Dan Parks?' I asked.

'My mother's sister and her husband,' he said.

'But what are you doing here on this island? I don't understand.'

'I'll tell you,' he said. He sat down on a chair and took a guitar in his hands, but he didn't play it. 'You were right. I was a famous pop star. I was very rich, and I had a beautiful wife. But things went wrong.'

'How?'

'I took drugs,' he said. 'I drank a lot of alcohol. I got drunk and crashed cars. I did stupid, terrible things. I knew it was wrong but I couldn't stop doing it. I was... crazy, for a time.'

'I can understand that,' I told him. 'I've taken drugs, too.'

He looked surprised. 'You have?'

'Yes,' I said. 'After my father died, I was very unhappy and things went wrong for me too. But go on with your story.'

He went on. 'One night, I was driving my car. I was drunk and — and I hit somebody. A young girl. She... died. I killed her.'

'Oh, no!'

'Yes,' he said. 'She was fifteen years old. I wanted to die, too. The money didn't matter anymore. Nothing mattered anymore.'

'What did you do after the accident?' I asked.

'I drove on in the car. I didn't stop, and I didn't tell the police. I had killed someone and I was afraid.' He looked afraid now. He put the guitar down and went on with his story. 'So I made a plan. Jake Rosso had to die, too. It was the best thing to do. And so... I "killed" him.'

'But you're still alive.'

'My family know I'm alive, but no other people know.' He looked at me. 'But now you know.'

'How did you do it?' I asked.

'I told my family about my plan and I told Greta, my wife. At first they didn't like it. But after a long time, they said OK. Then I faked the car crash.'

'Faked it?'

'Yes,' he said. 'I put some of my things in the car. A guitar, and some clothes. Then I pushed my car over a cliff and burned it. The police found the burned car and thought I was dead. Everybody thought I was killed in the car crash.'

'But you faked the crash,' I said.

'Yes.'

'What did you do then?'

'My family hid me away for months. I tried to change into a different person — with shorter hair, a moustache, quiet suits. All my money went to Greta and she changed her name to Ross. I told her to buy this island. Now I invest her money, the money that was mine. And now I'm "James Ross".'

'What about "Jake Rosso"?' I asked.

'Jake Rosso took drugs,' he said. 'Jake Rosso got drunk and crashed cars. He killed a young girl, so he had to "die". I can never forget the girl. I think about her every day.'

'And that's why you always look so sad,' I thought.

I looked around the room. 'Why do you keep a room like this? Why do you keep the guitars, the posters and photographs?'

James Ross did not speak for a minute. Then he said, 'I need to remember my old life, and what Jake Rosso was like. I'm never going to sing again and I'm never going to take drugs. But I need this room, to remember.'

I looked at the posters and the photographs. And I looked at his sad face. 'I'm not going to say anything. I won't tell my mother, I won't tell anybody.'

James Ross looked at me. 'I think you understand,' he said.

'I do,' I said. 'I've done bad things. I want to forget them, too. I needed to get away, to hide, too. That's why we came to England, to begin a new life. Yes, I understand.'

He took my hand, and we walked out of the room and closed the door.

I never went into the room again, and I didn't tell anybody.

My mother and I left the island at the end of the summer. Soon after, I went to college.

My life is better now. I work on a farm in England and my mother works in an office. My mother doesn't worry about me, because I'm happier now.

I haven't been back to the island.

But I know there's a 'dead man' living there.

doorway n. opening into a building or room. 门口；出入口。

doorway

keep a secret not tell a secret. 保密。

keep a secret

family n. 家人。

family

alcohol n. drinks like beer, wine, whisky, etc. 酒精；酒。

alcohol

drunk adj. feeling the effect after drinking too much alcohol. 喝醉的。

drunk

crazy adj. suffering from mental disorder; foolish. 癫狂的；糊涂的。

crazy

fake v. try to cheat by making something seem true. 伪造。

fake

change into turn into. 变为。

change into

at the end of in the farthest or last part of. 在……的最后。

at the end of





5 　亡灵


我进了房间……感到很惊讶。

屋里满是奇怪的东西：花衬衫和花衣服，三把吉他。墙上还有一些海报和照片。

我看着海报。

杰克·罗索的脸俯视着我。

我望着已故的杰克·罗索的图片，想起了在香港时我房间墙壁上的那些照片。我永远也不会忘记那张脸——我最喜爱的歌手的那张脸。

接着，正当我盯着他那张脸看时，奇怪的事情发生了。我开始在海报上看出另一张脸。这张脸显得年龄大了一些，留着胡子，但又是一模一样 的。

我看到了罗斯先生的脸。

“不！”我说，“这不是真的！”

但这是真的，我知道这是真的。

“罗斯先生就是……杰克·罗索 ！”

“不是！”我身后有个人说。

我转过脸，看见了罗斯先生。他正站在门口。他看上去……害怕的样子。

“我不相信你的话！”我说。

“你必须相信我的话！”

我望着海报。“如果那个人不是你，那是谁？”

“是杰克·罗索。他是……我兄弟。”

“那不是真的！”我大声喊道，“我不相信你的话。听着，杰克·罗索是我最喜爱的歌手——我存有他几百张照片。我现在还保存着他所有的唱片。我喜爱过 他，你懂吗？成千上万的人喜爱过他。”

“他死了。”罗斯先生平静地说。

“没有 ！”我喊叫着，“你就是杰克·罗索！你现在看上去不一样了，是的。留着短发，蓄着胡子，戴着眼镜。但是你就是……杰克……罗索。你曾是我最喜爱的那位流行歌手，所以我知道 。”

罗斯先生没说什么，他看着我的脸。

“他不知道该怎么办了。”我想，“他知道我不相信他的话，他害怕了。”

然后他说：“昨天晚上是你在走廊里，对吗？”

“是我。”我回答说。

他看上去生气了。“我给你妈妈工作给错了，”他说，“我原以为不会有事，因为你们从香港来。而且我那时需要人帮我工作。我当时需要一个好秘书。”

“你另外的秘书知道你是谁吗？”我问道，“岛上其他的人知道吗？”

罗斯先生没有回答，但走到了窗户旁。他在思量着。

“他要干什么？”我想。

然后他转过身来。“好吧，你说对了。我……我是杰克·罗索。”

“我早就知道 这点！”

他显得有些不安和不快。“你能保密吗？一个非常重要的秘密？”

我想了一下，然后说：“能，我能保密。”

然后他把秘密告诉了我：

“岛上其他的人是我家里人。

“你家里人？”我说。

“是的。我的真名叫詹姆斯·邓肯，而邓肯先生和夫人是我的父母。托尼是我的弟弟，他的妻子莉萨是我的秘书。现在住院的就是她。”

“而斯特拉·帕克斯和丹·帕克斯呢？”我问道。

“是我姨妈和姨夫。”他说。

“但是你在这儿的这个岛上干什么呀？我不明白。”

“我会告诉你的，”他说。他在椅子上坐了下来，拿起了一把吉他，可他没弹。“你说对了。我过去是个有名的歌星，那时我很有钱，还有个漂亮的妻子。可后来出事了。”

“怎么了？”

“我吸毒，”他说，“我酗酒。我喝醉了并撞了车。我干了些既愚蠢而又可怕的事情。我知道这不对，可我不能罢手。有一段时间，我简直是……发疯了。”

“我可以理解。”我告诉他，“我也吸过毒。”

他看上去很惊讶。“你吸过毒？”

“吸过。”我说，“我父亲去世后，我很不快乐，我也出事了。可接着讲你的事吧。”

他接着讲了。“一天晚上，我开着车。我喝醉了，还——还撞了人。是个年轻姑娘，她……死了。我撞死了她。”

“啊，不！”

“真的。”他说，“她15岁。我也想去死。钱对我来说已不再有意义了。一切都不再有意义了。”

“出事之后你怎么办了？”我问道。

“我接着开车。我没停下来，也没告诉警察。我撞死了人，我真害怕。”他现在看上去还很害怕。他放下吉他继续讲他的故事。“所以我订了一个计划。杰克·罗索也得死。这是最好的办法。所以……我'杀'了他。”

“可你还活着。”

“我家人知道我还活着，但别人不知道。”他看了看我。“但现在你 知道了。”

“你是怎么做的？”我问道。

“我把我的计划告诉了我家里的人，还告诉了我的妻子格里塔。起初，他们不喜欢这个主意。可过了很长一段时间后，他们说'行'。后来我伪造了那场车祸。”

“伪造 车祸？”

“是的。”他说，“我在车里放了些我的东西。一把吉他，还有一些衣服。然后我把车从峭壁上推下去并且把车烧了。警察发现了烧毁的车，认为我死了。大家都认为我在车祸中丧生了。”

“可是车祸是你伪造的呀。”我说。

“是的。”

“后来你干了什么？”

“我的家里人把我隐匿了几个月。我尽力想变成一个完全不同的人——剪短头发，留起胡子，穿着不显眼的衣服。我所有的钱都归了格里塔，她把姓改为罗斯。我叫她买下这个岛。现在我用她的钱投资，这钱原来是我的。现在我是'詹姆斯·罗斯'。”

“那'杰克·罗索'呢？”我问。

“杰克·罗索吸毒。”他说，“杰克·罗索喝醉了酒，撞了车。他撞死了一个年轻姑娘，所以他不得不'死'。我永远也忘不了那个女孩。我天天想着她的事。”

“而那便是你为何总是显得那么忧郁的原因。”我想。

我环视了一下这个房间。“你为什么把房间保持这个样子？你为什么保留这些吉他、海报和照片？”

詹姆斯·罗斯沉默了片刻。然后他说：“我需要记住原来的生活，记住杰克·罗索曾是什么样子。我决不会再唱歌，也决不会吸毒了。可是我需要这个房间，来回忆过去。”

我望着海报和照片。我还望着他那张忧郁的脸。“我什么也不会说的。我不会告诉我妈妈的，我谁也不会告诉的。”

詹姆斯·罗斯看着我。“我想你理解。”他说。

“我理解。”我说，“我做过错事。我也想把它们忘掉。我也想出走，隐藏起来。那就是为什么我们来到了英格兰，来开始一种新生活的原因。是的，我理解。”

他拉着我的手，我们走出了这个房间并关上了门。

我再也没进过这个房间，也没把这件事告诉过任何人。

夏末，我和我妈妈离开了那座岛。不久之后，我上了大学。

现在我的生活好多了。我在英格兰的一个农场工作，我妈妈在办公室工作。她不为我担心了，因为我现在快乐多了。

我再也没有回岛上去过。

但是我知道那儿住着一位“亡灵”。





Exercises


A Checking your understanding

Chapter 1 Write answers to these questions.

Chapter 1

1 How did Carol's father die?

2 How old was Carol when her father died?

3 Why did Carol stop working at college?

4 What did Carol begin to do with her new friends?

5 Why did Carol want to come back to England?

6 Where did Carol and her mother meet Greta Ross?

Chapter 2 Who said or thought these words?

Chapter 2

1 'How can a young man buy an island?'

2 'Mr Ross doesn't like visitors to the island.'

3 'Mr Ross is talking to a business friend in New York.'

4 'My secretary is in hospital and there's a lot of work to do.'

5 'Carol will enjoy working on the farm.'

Chapter 3 Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?

Chapter 3

1 Dan and Stella Parks were not very friendly to Carol.

2 Smoke knew his way around the island.

3 The island belonged to Mr Ross.

4 Carol took a photograph of Mr Ross.

5 Mr Ross took the film out of the camera.

Chapter 4 Who in this chapter...

Chapter 4

1 ...was hot and couldn't sleep?

2 ...was in the locked room?

3 ...went out in the boat?

Chapter 5 Find answers to these questions.

Chapter 5

1 What was Mr Ross's real name?

2 Who were Mr and Mrs Duncan?

3 How old was the girl who was killed in Jake Rosso's car accident?

4 How did Jake Rosso fake his death?

5 When did Carol leave the island?

B Working with language

1 Complete these sentences with information from the story.

1 Carol was very unhappy after...

2 The police didn't arrest Carol but she...

3 Carol's mother needed a job so...

4 Mr Ross needed a new secretary because...

5 When Carol took her photo of the house, Mr Ross...

6 Mr Duncan took the film out of the camera because...

7 Mr Ross locked the door of the room carefully and...

8 When Mr Ross called 'Who's that?', Carol...

2 Put these sentences in the right order. Check your order with Chapter 5.

1 He didn't tell the police about the accident because he was afraid.

2 When the police found the burned car, they thought Jake Rosso was dead.

3 When Jake Rosso was driving his car one night, he had an accident.

4 After some months Greta changed her name to Ross and bought the island with Jake's money.

5 He hit a young girl and she died.

6 So he put a guitar and some clothes in his car.

7 Now Mr Ross lives very quietly but he can never forget the young girl who died.

8 At the same time Jake Rosso changed into Mr James Ross, a businessman.

9 Then he pushed the car over a cliff and burned it.

10 He decided that Jake Rosso had to die, too.

C Activities

1 You are Carol in the story. Write a letter to a friend and explain why you think there is something strange about Mr Ross.

2 You are a newspaper reporter. Write a report about Jake Rosso's death in a car crash.

3 Jake Rosso has just come home after the accident when he killed a young girl. He tells his wife, Greta, about the accident and about his plan to fake his own death. Write down their conversation.

4 Write a letter to the author of the book and say what you like and don't like about it.

京权图字 01-2006-3282

Originally published by Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon Street, Oxford. © 2002

This Edition is licensed for sale in the People's Republic of China only and not for export therefrom

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press

图书在版编目（CIP）数据

坎特维尔幽灵：英汉对照／（英）王尔德（Wilde, O.）著；（英）埃斯科特（Escott, J.）改写；张颖，王霖霖译．—北京：外语教学与研究出版社，2006.6（2014.12 重印）

（书虫·牛津英汉双语读物）

书名原文：The Canterville Ghost

ISBN 978-7-5600-5453-7

Ⅰ．坎…　Ⅱ．①王…②埃…③张…④王…　Ⅲ．①英语—汉语—对照读物　②短篇小说—英国—现代　Ⅳ．H319.4：I

中国版本图书馆CIP数据核字（2006）第023530号

出版人：　 蔡剑峰

出版人：　

责任编辑： 余　军

责任编辑：

封面设计： 孙莉明

封面设计：

出版发行： 外语教学与研究出版社

出版发行：

社　　址： 北京市西三环北路19号（100089）

社　　址：

网　　址： http://www.fltrp.com

网　　址：

版　　次： 2006年6月第1版

版　　次：

书　　号： ISBN 978-7-5600-5453-7

书　　号：

*　　*　　*

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

凡侵权、盗版书籍线索，请联系我社法律事务部

举报电话：（010）88817519

举报电话：（010）88817519

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

电子邮箱：banquan@fltrp.com

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

法律顾问：立方律师事务所　刘旭东律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师

　　　　　中咨律师事务所　殷　斌律师





内容简介


大多数古老的宅子里都会有些幽灵。有时会是个安静、善良的幽灵；有时候则是个闹哄哄的家伙，总是不停地摔门，咯啷咯啷地晃着锁链。

坎特维尔古堡的幽灵就属于闹哄哄的那种，吵得一家大小全都睡不好觉。于是坎特维尔勋爵把房子卖给了奥蒂斯先生。这位可是美国人，一点儿也不怕什么幽灵。实际上，奥蒂斯夫妇和他们的孩子们——华盛顿、漂亮的弗吉尼娅、加上那对淘气的双胞胎兄弟——非常乐意住在一所有幽灵的宅子里。

但是幽灵可不乐意。他的职责就是吓唬人，而奥蒂斯一家对他那些拿手的把戏一点儿也不害怕。他们的头发没有被吓白，他们没有被吓得逃跑，他们也没有被吓晕——甚至连叫也不叫一声。还有，奥蒂斯家的那对双胞胎知道的把戏，竟比可怜的幽灵还多……





THE CANTERVILLE GHOST


Most grand old houses have a family ghost of some kind. Sometimes it is a quiet and kindly ghost, and sometimes it is a noisy one, always banging doors and crashing about in chains.

The ghost at Canterville Chase is one of the noisy kind, and the family can't get any sleep at night. So Lord Canterville sells the house to Mr Hiram B. Otis, who is an American and not at all worried about ghosts. In fact, Mr and Mrs Otis and their children Washington, pretty Virginia, and the twins, two noisy little boys are very happy to live in a house with a ghost.

But the ghost is not happy. His job is to frighten people, and the Otis family aren't frightened by any of his best tricks. Their hair doesn't turn white, they don't run away in terror, they don't faint — they don't even scream! And the Otis twins know more tricks than the poor ghost will ever know...





1THE OTIS FAMILY COMES TO CANTERVILLE


THE OTIS FAMILY COMES TO CANTERVILLE

When Hiram B. Otis, the American businessman, bought the house called Canterville Chase, people told him that he was doing a very dangerous thing. Everybody knew that there was a ghost in the house. Lord Canterville himself told Mr Otis all about it.

'We don't like to live in the house ourselves,' he said. 'Too many of my family have seen the ghost. My wife's grandmother, the Duchess of Bolton, is one of them. One night, while she was dressing for dinner, two skeleton hands were put on her shoulders. She has been ill for years because of that. And my wife never got any sleep there, because of all the noises at night.'

'Lord Canterville,' answered Mr Otis, 'I will buy both the house and the ghost. I come from a modern country, and we can buy nearly everything in America — but not ghosts. So, if there really is a ghost in the house, we can send it home to America, and people will pay to go and see it.'

'I'm afraid that the house really does have a ghost,' said Lord Canterville, smiling. 'Perhaps there are no ghosts in your country, but our ghost has been in the house for three hundred years, and it always appears before the death of one of the family.'

'Well, so does the family doctor, Lord Canterville. But there are no ghosts, sir, in any country — not even in famous old British families.'

'Very well,' said Lord Canterville. 'If you're happy to have a ghost in the house, that's all right. But please remember that I did tell you about it.'

*　*　*

And so Mr Hiram B. Otis bought the house, and a few weeks later he and his family went down to Canterville Chase on the train.

Mrs Otis was a very beautiful woman, and looked just as English as an Englishwoman. American people are really no different from English people — but they do, of course, speak a different language. Her eldest son, Washington, was a good-looking young man with a wonderful smile, who was famous at all the London parties for his fine dancing. Miss Virginia E. Otis was a sweet little girl of fifteen with big blue eyes. She loved to ride horses and could ride-faster than a lot of men. One day the young Duke of Cheshire saw her on horseback, and immediately asked her to marry him — but his family sent him back to school the next day. After Virginia came the twins — two happy, noisy little boys, who were always laughing and playing tricks.

It was a lovely July evening when the family got off the train. The fields and trees looked beautiful in the golden sunshine. The birds were singing sweetly, and the sky was a bright blue. But when they arrived at Canterville Chase, storm clouds suddenly appeared in the sky. Then ten or twelve large black birds flew down over their heads, and big drops of rain began to fall.

An old woman in a black dress was standing in the doorway of the house, waiting to meet them. This was Mrs Umney, the housekeeper.

'Welcome to Canterville Chase,' she said.

They followed her into the library — a long, dark room with a high window at one end. Here, tea was ready for them, so they took off their coats and sat down.

Suddenly Mrs Otis saw a dark red stain on the floor, near the fireplace.

'Is that a stain on the floor there?' she asked.

'Yes, Mrs Otis,' said Mrs Umney quietly. 'It's a bloodstain.'

'Oh, that's terrible!' cried Mrs Otis. 'I can't have bloodstains on my floors. It must go.'

The old woman smiled, and again answered in a quiet voice. 'It is the blood of Lady Eleanore de Canterville,' she said. 'Her husband, Sir Simon de Canterville, murdered her in 1575, while she was standing just there , in that place. He lived for another nine years after her death, but then he disappeared, very strangely and suddenly. Nobody ever found his body, but his ghost is still in the house, and will not rest. The bloodstain is famous — visitors come here specially to see it. People have tried to clean it, but it will not go away.'

'Of course it will!' cried Washington Otis. 'Pinkerton's Famous Stain Cleaner will clean it up in a second.'

And before the housekeeper could stop him, he was cleaning the floor with a small black stick.

A minute later, the bloodstain was gone!

'There you are!' he said, smiling at the others. 'Pinkerton can clean anything!'

But at these words the storm outside suddenly began. A terrible flash of lightning lit up the room, and a second later came a great crash of thunder. Everyone jumped up at the sound of the thunder...and Mrs Umney fainted.

'What terrible weather this country has!' said Mr Otis. He sat down again and lit a cigarette.

Mrs Umney lay on the floor, with her eyes closed. Mrs Otis looked at her. 'My dear Hiram,' she cried. 'What can we do with a woman who faints?'

'Tell her she has to pay some money,' said Mr Otis. 'If she breaks a cup or something, she has to pay for it. So tell her to pay if she faints. She won't faint after that.'

At this Mrs Umney immediately sat up, but she looked very unhappy. 'Be careful! Trouble is coming to this house!' she said, her voice shaking. 'I have seen things here which are too terrible to describe. For night after night, I have not closed my eyes in sleep.'

Mr Otis gave her a warm smile. 'My wife and I are not afraid of ghosts, Mrs Umney.'

The old housekeeper got shakily to her feet. 'You Americans are so strong!' she said. 'And so kind! You know, I have worked here for many, many years at the same pay, and...'

'OK, Mrs Umney. We'll pay you more money,' said Mr Otis, still smiling.

'Oh, thank you, dear Mr Otis. And dear Mrs Otis. Thank you very much.'

lord n. a man of noble rank, esp. in Britain （尤指英国的）贵族（此处指勋爵）

duchess n. the wife of a duke 公爵夫人

skeleton n. the structure consisting of all the bones in a human or animal body 骨骼；骸骨

shoulder n. the part of the body at which the arm is attached 肩膀

appear v. to become able to be seen 出现

remember v. keep in the memory; not forget 牢记；记住

wonderful adj. unusually good 极好的

duke n. a nobleman of the highest rank outside the royal family 公爵

immediately adv. without delay; at once 马上；立即

trick n. a troublesome but playful act 恶作剧

fireplace n. the opening for a coal, fire in the wall of a room 壁炉

stain n. a mark left accidentally on surfaces 污迹

murder v. kill (a human being) unlawfully, esp. wickedly or inhumanly 谋杀；凶杀

disappear v. to go out of sight 消失；不见

specially adv. for a particular purpose 专门地；特地

crash n. a sudden loud noise made 突然发出的巨响

faint v. lose consciousness unexpectdly 昏厥；晕倒

shake v. to move up and down or from side to side with quick short movements 发抖；颤抖

describe v. to say what something is like; to give a picture of in words 形容；描述





1 ．奥蒂斯一家来古堡


当美国商人海勒姆·B. 奥蒂斯买下那座叫坎特维尔古堡的宅邸时，人们对他说，他正在做一件非常危险的事情。每个人都知道，那座宅子里有一个幽灵。坎特维尔勋爵还亲自对奥蒂斯先生讲了有关它的一切。

“我们自己都不愿意在那房子住，”他说，“我家里有很多人都见过这个幽灵。我妻子的祖母，博尔顿公爵夫人，就是其中一位。有天晚上，当她正在穿衣服准备去赴宴，有两只骷髅手放在了她的肩膀上。她因此一病不起，有好多年了。我妻子从没在那儿睡着过觉，因为晚上总有各种稀奇古怪的声音。”

“坎特维尔勋爵，”奥蒂斯先生答道，“我要把房子，还有 幽灵都买下来。我来自现代化的国家，在美国我们几乎能买到一切——可买不到幽灵。所以，如果宅子里真有幽灵，我们就把它送回美国去，人们会花钱来参观的。”

“恐怕房子里真有幽灵，”坎特维尔勋爵笑道，“或许在你们的 国家没有幽灵，但我们家的幽灵住在房子里有300年了，而且，在家里有人去世之前，它总会现身。”

“是啊，家庭医生那会儿也会现身的，坎特维尔勋爵。但幽灵是不存在的，先生，不管是哪个 国家——哪怕在鼎鼎大名的传统英国家庭。”

“那好吧，”坎特维尔勋爵说，“如果你乐意家里有个幽灵的话，那没问题。但请记住我是警告过你的。”

*　*　*

于是，海勒姆·B. 奥蒂斯先生买下了那栋宅子，几周之后，他们一家人便乘火车来到了坎特维尔古堡。

奥蒂斯太太是位非常漂亮的女人，看上去就跟英国女人一样。其实美国人和英国人没什么两样——但他们讲的话确实不同。奥蒂斯太太的大儿子叫华盛顿，是个英俊的年轻人，笑起来非常好看，他的优美舞姿在伦敦各大舞会上都颇有名气。弗吉尼娅·E. 奥蒂斯小姐是位可爱的小姑娘，15岁了，有一双蓝色的大眼睛。她喜欢骑马，而且比许多男人骑得还要快。一天，年轻的柴郡公爵看见她骑马的样子，便立即向她求婚——可惜第二天公爵的家人就把他送回了学校。在弗吉尼娅之后还有一对双胞胎——两个快活、吵闹的小男孩。他们总是笑个不停，爱搞恶作剧。

7月一个醉人的傍晚，这一家人下了火车。在金色的夕阳下，田野和树木看上去美极了，鸟儿欢快地唱着歌，天空一片蔚蓝。可就在他们到达坎特维尔古堡的时候，天空中出现了乌云，十来只巨大的黑鸟盘旋在他们的头顶上，接着豆大的雨点便开始落下来。

一位穿黑裙子的老妇人正站在门口等候他们，她是乌玛尼夫人，宅子的管家。

“欢迎来坎特维尔古堡。”她说。

一家人跟着她来到书房——一间又长又暗的屋子，屋子的一头是高高的窗户。茶水已经为他们准备好了，于是他们脱下外衣，坐了下来。

突然，奥蒂斯太太看到地板上有一块暗红色的污迹，就在壁炉旁边。

“地板那儿是有块污迹吧？”她问。

“是的，奥蒂斯太太，”乌玛尼夫人平静地说，“那是血迹。”

“啊，太恶心啦！”奥蒂斯太太叫道，“我家的地板上可不能有血迹，一定要弄干净。”

那老妇人微笑着，依然用平静的声音回答，“那是埃莉诺·德·坎特维尔夫人的血迹，”她说，“她的丈夫，西蒙·德·坎特维尔爵士，于1575年将她谋害，当时她就站在那儿 ，就那个地方。她死之后，西蒙老爷又活了9年，可那以后他就突然失踪了，很是离奇。没有人找到过他的尸首，但他的鬼魂一直徘徊在宅子里，永不安宁。这块血迹非常有名——观光者都特地来参观。人们试过要把它擦干净，可就是去不掉。”

“肯定去得掉！”华盛顿·奥蒂斯大声说道，“平克顿牌的著名去污剂一下子就能把它去掉。”

管家还没来得及阻止他，他就已经在用一根黑色的小棒棒清洁地板了。

一分钟之后，血迹不见了！

“看吧！”他对其他人笑着说，“用平克顿什么都能去掉！”

话一出口，外面忽然下起了暴风雨，可怕的闪电照亮了整个房间。片刻之后，传来一声巨雷，吓得大家跳了起来……而乌玛尼夫人晕了过去。

“这个国家的天气糟糕透了！”奥蒂斯先生说道。他重新坐好，点了一支烟。

乌玛尼夫人倒在地上，双目紧闭。奥蒂斯太太看着她。“亲爱的海勒姆，”她喊道，“有女士昏过去了，我们该怎么办？”

“跟她说她得赔钱。”奥蒂斯先生说，“要是她打碎了杯子啥的，她就得赔。所以告诉她要是晕倒了就得赔钱，那样她就晕不了啦。”

听到这儿乌玛尼夫人立马就坐了起来，可她看上去不大高兴。“小心吧！这房子里的麻烦开始啦！”她说，声音颤抖不已。“我见过这儿发生的事情，可怕得都难以形容。我一宿一宿地睡觉都不敢合眼。”

奥蒂斯先生热情地对她笑笑。“我太太和我都不怕鬼，乌玛尼夫人。”

老管家颤颤巍巍地站了起来。“你们美国人可真是天不怕地不怕啊！”她说，“人也真好！知道吧，我在这儿干了好多好多年啦，薪水都没涨，还有……”

“好啦，乌玛尼夫人。我们会付你更多的钱的。”奥蒂斯先生仍然笑着说。

“啊，谢谢您，亲爱的奥蒂斯先生，还有亲爱的奥蒂斯太太。非常感谢你们。”





2SIR SIMON MEETS THE OTIS FAMILY


SIR SIMON MEETS THE OTIS FAMILY

The storm went on all night, and the next morning, when the family came down to breakfast, the bloodstain was on the library floor again.

'That's strange,' said Washington. 'Pinkerton's Famous Stain Cleaner usually cleans anything. It must be the ghost.'

He cleaned the floor again with the little black stick, but the next morning the stain appeared once more. That night, Mr Otis closed the windows and locked the library door. But in the morning the bloodstain was there again.

The family found this most interesting.

'Is there a ghost, or isn't there?' they said to themselves. They could not decide.

But that night, they had the answer to their question.

After the family was in bed and asleep, a strange noise woke Mr Otis. It sounded like something metal moving slowly along the passage, and it was coming nearer to his bedroom door. He got out of bed and listened carefully. The strange noise went on, and he also heard the sound of footsteps. Then he put on his shoes, took a small bottle from his cupboard, and opened the door of his room.

There, in the moonlight, was an old man with eyes as red as fire. His grey hair was long and dirty, his clothes were old and full of holes, and there were heavy metal chains round his arms and legs.

'My dear man,' said Mr Otis, 'you really must put some oil on those noisy chains! I've brought you a bottle of Tammany's Sun Oil, which is very good. Everybody in America uses it. I'll leave it here for you, and I'll be happy to give you some more when you need it.'

He put the bottle down on a small table, then went back inside his room and got into bed.

For a second or two the Canterville ghost stood still. He was so angry! Then he knocked the bottle of oil on to the floor and hurried away. A strange green light came from his body, and he gave a long and terrible cry that rang through the house. But when he got to the top of the stairs, a door opened, two little people appeared, and a large pillow went flying past his head!

This was too much for the ghost, so he quickly disappeared through the wall, and soon the house was quiet again.

When he got to his secret room, the Canterville ghost sat down in the moonlight and tried to think. He was both angry and unhappy.

'For three hundred years,' he said to himself, 'I have been the best and the most famous ghost in the country! Everybody — everybody — has been afraid of me. There was the Duchess of Bolton not long ago. I put my skeleton hands on her shoulders, and she nearly died of terror. She has been ill ever since. Before that, there were three — no, four — housekeepers, who ran away from the house, screaming. Then there was that wonderful night in 1752 when Lord Augustus shot himself in the library, because he saw a skeleton in the armchair by the fire. And there was the beautiful Lady Stutfield, who never spoke again after my cold fingers held her long white neck while she sat at dinner.'

The ghost sat there, remembering all those happy times in the past. But he was not happy now. 'After all this,' he said, 'these terrible modern Americans come to the house and give me Tammany's Sun Oil for my chains, and throw pillows at my head! It's too bad! They'll be sorry for this — oh, yes, they will!'

All night long, the ghost sat, and thought hard.

interesting adj. causing curiosity; holding the attention 有趣的；引起兴趣的

metal n. any usu. solid shiny mineral substance which can be shaped by pressure and used for passing an electric current 金属

passage n. a narrow way for passing along, esp. with walls on either side; a corridor 走廊；通道

cupboard n. a recess or piece of furniture with a door and (usu.) shelves, in which things are stored （放衣服、食品等的）小橱

pillow n. a cloth bag, usu. longer than it is wide, filled with a soft substance and used for supporting the head in bed 枕头

secret adj. (of a place) hidden, completely secluded 隐蔽的；暗藏的

terror n. extreme fear 恐怖；惊骇

scream v. a sudden loud cry expressing anger, pain, fear, etc. （因恐惧、痛苦等而）尖声喊叫





2 ．西蒙爵士现身


暴见雨下了一整夜。第二天早上，当一家人下楼吃早饭时，血迹又出现在书房的地板上了。

“真奇怪，”华盛顿说，“通常平克顿去污剂什么都能除掉。一定是幽灵在捣鬼。”

他又用黑色小棒清洁了地板，可第二天早晨血迹又出现了。当天晚上，奥蒂斯先生关好窗户，锁紧了书房的门，可到了早上血迹又在那里了。

一家人觉得这真是挺有趣的。

“到底有没有幽灵啊？”他们暗自琢磨，可下不了定论。

但是当天晚上，他们就得到了答案。

在一家人都上床睡着之后，一个奇怪的声音惊醒了奥蒂斯先生。好像有金属的东西慢慢在走廊里拖动，离他的卧室门口越来越近。他起身下床，细听动静，奇怪的声音还在继续，他还听到有脚步声。于是他穿上鞋，从橱柜里拿出个小瓶子，打开了卧室的门。

就在月光下，有个老家伙，他的眼睛火红火红的，灰色的头发又长又脏，衣服破旧不堪，满是窟窿；他的腿和胳膊上都拴着沉重的铁链。

“亲爱的先生，”奥蒂斯先生说，“你真该给这些叮叮当当的链子擦点儿油了！我给你拿了一瓶坦马尼太阳油，效果好着呢，美国人都用它。我把它留给你，如果你还有需要，我非常乐意再为你提供。”

他把瓶子放在一张小桌上，接着就回卧室上床睡觉了。

有那么一两秒钟，这位坎特维尔的幽灵僵在那里，气得七窍生烟！然后他一下子把油瓶碰倒在地板上，急匆匆地走了。他身体上发出奇怪的绿色光芒，接着他发出一声长长的、可怕的怪叫，响彻了整个宅邸。但就在他上到楼梯顶上的时候，有扇门打开了，出现了两个小人影，一个硕大的枕头从他头上“呼”地飞了过去！

这样对待幽灵太过分啦，因此他迅速穿过墙壁，消失了。片刻之间，整个宅子又安静下来。

幽灵回到自己的秘室，坐在月光下试图集中思想。他既忿忿不平，又满腹委屈。

“300年来，”他暗自思忖，“我都是全国最出色、最有名望的幽灵！每个人——每个人哪 ——都对我惧怕不已。不久之前就有博尔顿公爵夫人中了招儿，我把骷髅手放在她的肩膀上，几乎把她吓死，从那以后她就一病不起。在她之前，有三个——不，是四个——管家婆，都是一边尖叫一边跑出这座宅子的。还有在1752年，那个美好的夜晚，奥古斯塔斯勋爵在书房里开枪自杀，因为他在火炉旁的扶手椅上看到了一副骷髅架子。再有就是那位楚楚动人的斯图菲尔德小姐，在她用晚餐的时候，我用冰凉的手指握住了她那颀长雪白的脖子，从那以后她就再没有说过话。”

幽灵坐在那里，回忆着过去所有的美妙时光。可他现在一点儿也不觉得美妙。“在所有这些之后，”他说道，“这些可恶的、新潮的美国佬搬进这栋宅子，还给我坦马尼太阳油来擦链子，扔大枕头砸我的脑袋！真是太可恶啦！他们会为此后悔的——哼，对，会后悔的！”

幽灵就坐在那儿，冥思苦想了整整一夜。





3A SECOND GHOST APPEARS AT CANTERVILLE


A SECOND GHOST APPEARS AT CANTERVILLE

The next morning, when the Otis family met at breakfast, they talked about the ghost for some time. Mr Otis was a little cross to find the bottle of Tammany's Sun Oil lying on the floor of the passage.

'I don't want,' he said, 'to hurt the ghost in any way.' Here he looked at the boys. 'We must remember that he has lived in this house for a very long time, so I don't think it's very nice to throw pillows at him — no, don't laugh, boys, it's not funny. But if the ghost won't use the oil, we will have to take his chains away from him. We can't possibly sleep with that noise going on outside our bedrooms every night.'

But for the rest of the week all was quiet. The only interesting thing was the bloodstain. Every day Washington cleaned the floor with Pinkerton's Stain Cleaner, and every night Mr Otis carefully locked the windows and the library door. But the bloodstain was always there again the next morning.

It also changed colour a few times. On some days it was red, on other days it was purple, and once it was bright green. Most of the family thought these colour changes were very funny and they hurried downstairs each morning to find out the new colour. The only person who did not laugh was little Virginia, but she would not explain why. And on the morning the bloodstain was bright green, she nearly cried.

On Sunday night, soon after the family went to bed, the ghost made his next move. There was a three-hundred-year-old suit of armour downstairs. 'Now, a ghost in armour will surely frighten even modern Americans,' he thought. He began to put on the suit of armour, but it was too heavy for him, and he and the armour fell to the floor with a loud CRASH.

All the men in the Otis family jumped out of bed and hurried downstairs at once. They found the unhappy ghost sitting there, holding his head and crying softly with pain. The twins had their pea-shooters with them and immediately began to shoot little balls of paper at him. Mr Otis brought out his handgun and, like the good Californian he was, called out to the ghost:

'Hold up your hands!'

At this, the ghost jumped up with a wild and angry scream and flew through them. Washington Otis's candle went out, and suddenly everything was dark. At the top of the stairs, the ghost turned to give his terrible ghostly laugh — the famous laugh which once turned Lord Raker's hair white in a single night. It went on and on until the house was full of the sound.

A bedroom door opened and Mrs Otis appeared with a bottle in her hand. 'I'm afraid you're not feeling very well,' she said to the ghost. 'I've brought you some of Dr Dobell's special stomach medicine. If you're having trouble with your stomach, this will soon help you to feel better.'

The ghost looked at her angrily, and began to turn himself into a big black dog (one of his most famous tricks). But the sound of young footsteps coming up the stairs stopped him, and he quickly disappeared with a ghostly 'Oooooooh!' before the twins arrived at the top.

For some days after this he was very ill, and only went out to make the bloodstain again each night. But when he began to feel better, he decided to try for the third time to frighten Hiram B. Otis and his family.

He spent most of Friday, the 17th of August, trying to decide what to wear. At last he decided on a dead man's shroud, a large black hat with a red feather in it, and a long knife.

That night the wind shook all the doors and windows, and the rain crashed down onto the roof of the house. The ghost made his plans carefully.

'I'll go first to Washington Otis's room,' he said to himself. 'He cleans away the famous Canterville bloodstain each morning, so I want to be sure that he'll be really frightened. I'll make ghostly noises to wake him up, then I'll push my knife into my neck three times, to the sound of slow music.'

'Then I'll go to Mr Hiram B. Otis's room. I'll make a terrible noise in his ear, and at the same time put my cold hand on Mrs Otis's face. Now, what about Virginia? She's never played any tricks on me, and she's sweet and pretty. Perhaps I'll just make a soft 'Ooooh!' in her ear ... or move her bed sheets a little with my skeleton's fingers.'

'And then on to the twins! Those horrible boys are going to learn a lesson tonight! I'll stand between their beds, looking like a dead body — cold and green and smelling of death. They'll be too frightened to move. Then I'll throw off my shroud and do my famous skeleton dance all round the room.'

He heard the family go to bed at half past ten. For some time he listened to the laughs and shouts of the twins, but by a quarter past eleven all was quiet.

At the sound of midnight, the ghost left his room. He came out of the wall with the knife in his hand and a smile on his face. It was not a nice smile, and when the moon saw it through a window, she hid behind a cloud.

Slowly and silently the ghost moved through the house, while the Otis family went on happily sleeping. At the corner of the passage which went along to Washington's room, the ghost stopped for a minute. A little wind came from nowhere, pulling his long white shroud this way and that, and showing the skeleton arms and neck of the walking dead. He heard the clock sound a quarter past midnight, gave a little laugh, and turned the corner...

...And stopped — in terror! There, in front of him, was standing the most horrible ghost. It had a large head with no hair on it, and a fat round face with a deathly smile across its open mouth. A red light burned like fire inside its mouth and behind both of its eyes. Its great body was hidden under a long shroud, and it carried a large piece of paper with strange writing on it.

The Canterville ghost did not wait to read it. He was too frightened. When you see your first ghost, you don't stop to talk, you turn and run — so the Canterville ghost turned and ran. His long shroud got caught around his feet and he nearly fell over, but he ran as fast as he could, away from the horrible thing that was watching him with fire in its eyes. He turned the corner, dropped his knife into one of Hiram B. Otis's shoes, which were outside his bedroom door (Mr Otis found it there the next morning) , and ran on to his room.

He threw himself onto his bed, and hid his head under his pillow. It was some time before he began to feel better. Then he told himself that he was a Canterville, and that Cantervilles were fighters to the end.

'When it gets light,' he thought, 'I'll go and speak to this other ghost. Perhaps we can be friends. After all, two ghosts are better than one, and if the two of us work together, perhaps we can frighten those terrible twins at last.'

Very early the next morning, while the family was still sleeping, he went back to the passage. The other ghost was still there, but now there was something wrong with it. There was no fire in its eyes, and it was resting against the wall like a sick man. The Canterville ghost moved forward quickly and put his arms round the other ghost and its head fell off! Then the body fell to the floor, and the Canterville ghost saw that he was holding a white bed sheet. And there was a brush, and a turnip with holes in it, lying at his feet.

'What's happened?' he thought. 'Where has the ghost gone?'

Then he saw the piece of paper on the front of the sheet, and there, in the grey morning light, he read these terrible words:

The Otis Ghost

The only true and real ghost,

All others are false.

At once he understood everything. It was a trick — another horrible trick! He stood there, too angry to move, and tried to think of a plan to finish these terrible Americans once and for all. But he couldn't think of any plan, so after a while he went to find a quiet dark place to lie down in.

cross adj. angry; bad tempered 脾气坏的；易怒的

funny adj. causing laughter; amusing 有趣的；滑稽的

change v. make or become different 改变

armour n. a defensive covering, usu. of metal, formerly worn to protect the body in fighting 盔甲

pea-shooter n. a small tube used by children for blowing. small objects at people or things 射豆枪

candle n. a usu. round stick of wax containing a length of string which gives light when it burns 蜡烛

stomach n. a baglike organ in the body where food is broken down for use by the body after being eaten. 胃

shroud n. a cloth for covering a dead body for burial 裹尸布

horrible adj. very unkind or unpleasant 极讨厌的

quarter n. 15 minutes before or after the hour 一刻钟

after all in spite of everything 毕竟；终究

sick adj. ill, affected by illness 有病的；不舒服的

turnip n. a large round yellowish or white root which is used as a vegetable 芜菁

once and for all in a final or conclusive manner, esp. so as to end hesitation or uncertainly 彻底地





3 ．又一个幽灵现身古堡


第二天早晨，奥蒂斯一家一起吃早餐时，谈论了一会儿幽灵的事。奥蒂斯先生对于坦马尼太阳油倒在走廊的地板上有些气恼。

“我不希望，”他说，“以任何方式伤害到幽灵。”说到这儿，他看了眼男孩子们。“我们要记得，他在这所宅子里已经住了相当长时间，所以我认为朝他扔枕头可不太好——不，别笑，小伙子们，这不好笑。但是如果幽灵不想擦油，我们就得把铁链从他身上卸下来。每天晚上卧室外面要全是噪音，那我们就别想睡安稳觉啦。”

可是这一周的剩下几天平安无事。唯一有趣的事情是那块血迹。每天华盛顿都用平克顿去污剂清理地板，每天晚上奥蒂斯先生都仔细地锁好窗户和书房门。但第二天早晨血迹总是再度出现。

有几次它还变换了颜色。有些天它是红色的，有些天又是紫色的，还有一次变成鲜绿色。家里多数人都觉得这些颜色变换十分好玩儿，每天早上都迫不及待地跑下楼来，查看新换的颜色。唯一一个不觉得好笑的是小弗吉尼娅，可她却不愿说出为什么。在血迹变成鲜绿色的那个早晨，她差一点儿哭了出来。

星期天晚上，一家人刚刚就寝，幽灵就采取了下一步的行动。在楼下有一副300年历史的盔甲。“好啦，就算是时髦的美国人肯定也会害怕穿甲胄的幽灵吧。”他暗想。他开始穿戴盔甲，可它太重了，只听“哐当”一声，他连人带盔甲都摔到了地上。

奥蒂斯家的所有男子汉都从床上蹦了起来，马上冲到楼下。他们发现倒霉的幽灵坐在原地，双手抱头，疼得在小声哭泣。双胞胎兄弟带着射豆枪，立即用小纸球向他射击。奥蒂斯先生掏出了手枪，像加利福尼亚的好汉一样对幽灵大喝道：

“把手举起来！”

见此情景，幽灵怒喝一声，跳了起来，从他们当中飞了过去。华盛顿·奥蒂斯手中的蜡烛熄灭了，突然间一片黑暗。在楼梯的顶端，幽灵发出了可怕的笑声——这笑声因为曾经让雷克斯勋爵一夜之间变白了头发而闻名天下。笑声持续不断，直到充斥整栋宅邸。

一间卧室的门打开，奥蒂斯夫人出现了，手中拿着一个瓶子。“我担心你是感觉不舒服了，”她对幽灵说，“我给你拿了点儿多贝尔医生治胃病的特效药。如果你胃有毛病，这个能让你马上感觉好起来。”

幽灵气愤地看着她，摇身变成一条巨大的黑犬（这是他著名的把戏之一）。但是蹦蹦跳跳跑上楼梯的脚步声令他停了下来，“呼——”的一声，他就迅速消失了，那对双胞胎还没来得及跑上楼来呢。

在这之后的很长时间，幽灵都病得十分厉害，每天晚上他仅仅是去把那块血迹变出来。但当他稍稍恢复以后，他决心第三次再去吓唬海勒姆·B. 奥蒂斯一家。

8月17日星期五，差不多一整天他都在考虑应该怎么打扮自己。他最终决定：身穿裹尸布，头戴大黑帽，帽插红羽毛，手持长刀。

当天晚上，狂风摇曳着所有的门窗，雨滴砸在屋顶之上。幽灵在小心翼翼地计划着：

“我要先去华盛顿·奥蒂斯的房间，”他自言自语道，“他每天都来清洗坎特维尔著名的血迹，所以我要好好地吓他一跳。我先一阵鬼叫把他吵醒，然后合着缓慢的音乐节拍，用刀子戳进我的脖子三次。”

“然后我要去海勒姆·B. 奥蒂斯先生的房间。我要冲着他的耳朵鬼叫，同时把我冰凉的手放在奥蒂斯夫人的脸上。那弗吉尼娅怎么办？她倒从来没对我耍过什么花样，也挺漂亮可爱。要不我只在她耳朵边上轻轻“嗷”一声吧……或者用我的骷髅手指拽一下她的床单。”

“接着就轮到那对双胞胎了！今天晚上，要好好教训一下这两个坏小子！我要站在他们俩的床中间，看上去就像具死尸——冰冷、铁青，发出死亡的臭味。他们会被吓得动也不敢动。然后我就扯掉我的尸袍，在屋子里跳起我那著名的骷髅舞。”

10点半，他听到一家人都上床了。有一段时间他还听到那对双胞胎在又笑又叫，但11点一刻之后，一切都安静下来。

午夜的钟声响了，幽灵离开自己的房间。他穿墙而出，手中拿着刀，脸上带着窃笑。这笑容不怀好意，就连月亮透过窗户看到它时，也躲到了云丛中。

幽灵蹑手蹑脚地穿过宅邸，这时奥蒂斯一家还在酣美地睡着。在通向华盛顿房间的走廊拐角处，幽灵停了一会儿。不知哪儿来了一股微风，吹得他身上长长的白色尸袍摇曳起来，露出了骷髅胳膊和脖子。他听到钟声响过零点一刻后，就干笑一声，转过拐角……

……停在那儿了——太可怕了！就在他面前，矗立着一个最最可怕的幽灵。它的头硕大无比，没长头发，肥胖的圆脸上咧着张嘴，露出死一般的微笑。嘴和双眼燃烧着火一般的红光。庞大的身躯隐藏在长长的裹尸布下，还带着一大张纸，上面写着奇形怪状的文字。

坎特维尔幽灵都没等停下来读一读，他给吓坏了。当你头一遭碰到幽灵时，你不会停下来搭讪吧，你肯定转身便逃——所以坎特维尔幽灵转身就跑。长长的尸袍缠着脚，害得他差点儿摔了一跤，但是他以最快的速度跑着，逃离这个眼中冒火还死盯着他的可怕家伙。他转过墙角，把刀子掉在了海勒姆·B. 奥蒂斯的一只鞋里——他的鞋是放在卧室门外的（奥蒂斯先生第二天早上在鞋里发现了那把刀）——逃回了自己的房间。

他一头扎在床上，把头埋进枕头。过了好一阵子，他才稍稍缓过劲儿来。他告诫自己，他是坎特维尔人，而坎特维尔人都会战斗到底。

“等天亮了，”他思忖着，“我就去找那个幽灵聊聊。或许我们还能做朋友哩。毕竟，二鬼强似一鬼，如果我们两个联合起来，说不定最终能够吓坏那对可恶的双胞胎。”

第二天一大早，当奥蒂斯一家还在熟睡的时候，幽灵就又回到走廊里。那个幽灵仍然在那儿，但现在好像有点儿不大对劲儿。它的眼中没有了火焰，而且还病歪歪地靠在墙上。坎特维尔幽灵赶快跑过去，搂住了那个幽灵——可它的脑袋居然掉了下来。接着身体也倒在地板上，坎特维尔幽灵发现自己拿着的是一张白床单。他的脚下躺着一把刷子和一个上面有洞的芜菁。

“怎么回事？”他想，“那个幽灵去哪儿啦？”

这时他看到床单上的那张纸。在灰色的晨光中，他读到了这些可怕的字：

奥蒂斯幽灵，

唯一真正的幽灵，

余者皆为冒充。

他马上就明白了一切。这是个骗局——又一个可恶的骗局！他站在那儿，气得连动也不能动啦。他绞尽脑汁，要彻底干掉这些美国佬。可是他一个主意也想不出来，所以过了一会儿，他去找了个又黑又静的地方，躺下了。





4ENEMIES EVERYWHERE!


ENEMIES EVERYWHERE!

For the next five days the ghost stayed in his room. He was very tired, and he didn't feel well. He decided to stop putting the bloodstain on the library floor.

'The Otis family don't want it,' he thought, 'so they're not going to have it!'

Ghostly appearances were different, of course. It was his job to appear in the passage once a week, and to 'Oooooh!' and 'Aaaaagh!' from the great window on the stairs on the first and third Wednesday in every month.

So for the next three Saturdays, as usual, he walked along the passages between midnight and three o'clock. But he didn't want anybody to see or hear him. He took off his shoes and walked as quietly as he could. He wore a large black coat, and was careful to use Tammany's Sun Oil on his chains. At first he didn't want to, but one evening, while the family was at dinner, he went into Mr Otis's bedroom and took the bottle. After a time, he saw that the oil was really very useful.

But the twins still went on with their tricks. They put things in his way in dark corners, and he fell over them. They put butter on the top stair, and one night his feet went from under him and he went crashing down the stairs to the bottom. This made him very angry, and he decided to visit the boys the next night, as the famous 'Duke with No Head', and frighten them half to death.

He spent three hours getting ready, and was very pleased with how he looked. At a quarter past one he walked through the wall and moved silently through the passages to the twins' bedroom.

The door was open a little way. Pushing it hard, the ghost walked into the room — and a heavy jug of water fell right down on him. At the same time, he heard the twins laughing in their beds.

The ghost — wet from top to bottom — turned and ran from the room. He did not stop until he was back in his room. The next day he was ill with a bad cold.

After this, the ghost stopped trying to frighten the American family. He walked silently round the passages in soft shoes, carrying an old gun, and tried to stay away from everyone.

The last of the tricks happened on the 19th of September. That night the ghost was wearing one of his favourite shrouds, and he decided to walk down to the library. He wanted to see what was left of the bloodstain. He was on his way there when two shapes jumped out of a dark corner of the passage and shouted 'BOO!' in his ear.

The ghost was very frightened, of course, and ran to the stairs. But Washington Otis was waiting for him there, with a big garden-syringe. There were enemies on all sides! 'Aaaagh!' the ghost cried, then turned quickly and disappeared into the fireplace, which, luckily for him, was not lit. When at last he got back to his room, he was terribly dirty, with black all over his favourite shroud, and very unhappy.

After this, nobody saw him again at night. The twins waited to play tricks on him three or four times. They put nutshells all along the passages, which made walking around difficult for everyone in the house, but the ghost did not appear.

'Oh dear, he's too unhappy to come out,' they said.

Mr Otis began work again on his book. Mrs Otis gave a number of big 'American parties' for the English people who lived near them. The boys played in the house and garden, and Virginia went horse-riding with the young Duke of Cheshire. He was staying at Canterville Chase for the last week of his holidays.

Mr Otis wrote a letter to Lord Canterville and said: 'We think that the ghost has gone away.'

And Lord Canterville wrote back: 'I am happy to hear it!'

But Mr Otis was wrong. The ghost was still in the house. It is true that he was ill, but he was not yet ready to stop his ghostly work. The young Duke of Cheshire was staying in the house, and the ghost knew the Duke's family well. He once appeared before the brother of the Duke's grandfather as the Horseman of Death. The poor man's hair turned white in one night, and for the rest of his life he could only say the words, 'Turn out the light, turn out the light.' Now the ghost wanted to do the Horseman of Death for the young Duke too.

He got everything ready, but in the end he never left his room. He was too frightened of the twins to go out, and the young Duke slept happily in his bed, thinking of pretty Virginia.

appearance n. an outward form as perceived 外表；外貌

butter n. fairly solid yellow fat made from milk or cream and spread on bread, used in cooking 黄油

favourite adj. preferred to all others 最受喜爱的

shape n. something that you cannot see well because it is far away or there is not enough light 模糊的人影；幻象

garden-syringe n. a machine for putting liquid onto plants 浇花器

nutshell n. the hard outer covering of a nut 坚果壳





4 ．四面受敌


接下来的五天幽灵都待在自己的房间里。他疲惫极了，感觉也不好。他决定不再去书房的地板上染血迹。

“奥蒂斯一家不想要它，”他想，“所以他们不会拥有它！”

幽灵的外形是可以变化的，这是肯定的。每周，他都要出现在走廊里一次，每个月的第一和第三个星期三，他还要在楼梯旁的大窗户那儿“啾”、“啊”地鬼叫一番。

在接下来的三个星斯六，他会跟往常一样，从午夜到凌晨3点，一直在走廊里游走。但他却不想让任何人看到或听到。他脱下鞋子，尽可能轻手轻脚地走着，身穿一件大黑袍，还小心翼翼地在锁链上涂上坦马尼太阳油。最开始他不愿意这么做，但是有天晚上，在一家人吃晚饭时，幽灵跑进奥蒂斯先生的卧室，拿走了瓶子。经过一段时间之后，他发现这润滑油真是非常有用。

可是那对双胞胎仍在不断地搞花样。他们在黑暗的角落里摆上东西挡他的路，结果他被绊倒了。他们还在楼梯顶端抹上黄油，有天晚上幽灵脚一滑，从楼梯顶上一直滚到最底下。这令他恼羞成怒，决心变成著名的“无头公爵”，在第二天晚上去找这兄弟俩，要把他们吓个半死。

他花了三个小时准备，对自己的扮相十分满意。1点1刻，他穿过墙壁，静悄悄地走过走廊，来到那对双胞胎的卧室。

卧室门虚掩着。幽灵用力推开门，走进房间——一大壶水正好浇在他身上，同时，他听到那对双胞胎在床上大笑。

幽灵从头到脚全都湿透了，他转身就跑出了卧室，直到回到自己的房间，才停了下来。第二天，他患上了重感冒。

在这之后，幽灵再不想吓唬这家美国佬了。他穿着柔软的鞋子，悄悄地漫游于走廊上，还拿着一把老枪，试图躲开任何人。

最后一个恶作剧发生在9月19日。那天晚上，幽灵穿着他最喜欢的一件尸袍，决定到书房去，看看那块血迹怎么样了。他正走到半路，突然，在走廊的一个黑暗角落里，有两个人影跳了出来，冲着他大叫一声：“嘘！”

幽灵被吓坏了，连忙向楼梯跑去。可是华盛顿·奥蒂斯正在那儿恭候着，手中拿着浇花用的巨大喷水器。真是四面受敌啊！幽灵大叫一声：“啊！”接着迅速转身，消失在壁炉里——好在壁炉没有点火。当他最终回到自己的屋里时，幽灵邋遢得一塌糊涂，最心爱的裹尸袍全被染黑了，他委屈极了。

这之后，再也没有人在晚上见过他。有三四次那对双胞胎都在等着捉弄他。他们在走廊里全部撒上果壳，这下倒让屋里的人走起路来都别别扭扭的，可幽灵还是没有出现。

“哎呀，他都不乐意出来了。”双胞胎说。

奥蒂斯先生又重新钻研起书籍来。而奥蒂斯夫人为附近的英国邻居们举行了一系列的“美国社交会”。男孩子们在房子和花园里玩耍，弗吉尼娅和年轻的柴郡公爵一起去骑马。公爵要在坎特维尔古堡度过他假期的最后一个星期。

奥蒂斯先生给坎特维尔勋爵去了一封信说：“我们觉得那个幽灵已经离开了。”

坎特维尔勋爵回信说：“我真高兴听到这消息！”

可是奥蒂斯先生错了。幽灵仍然在宅子里。虽然他确实是生病了，可他不打算停止作怪。年轻的柴郡公爵正待在古堡里，而幽灵非常熟悉公爵一家。曾经有一次，他变成死神骑士出现在公爵的一个叔爷面前。那个可怜人一夜之间便白了头发，而且在余生当中只会说几个字：“熄掉灯，熄掉灯。”现在幽灵打算给公爵也来这么一下。

他一切就绪，但最终还是没离开自己的房间。他太害怕那对双胞胎了，都不敢出门。年轻的公爵在床上美美地睡着，思念着可爱的弗吉尼娅。





5POOR, POOR GHOST!


POOR, POOR GHOST!

A few days after this, Virginia and the young Duke went out horse-riding. They were riding through some woods when one of the trees caught Virginia's skirt and made a big hole in it. Later, when she got home, she went up the back stairs to her room. She wanted to change her skirt before anyone saw it.

On the way to her bedroom she went past a room which was not often used. The door was half open, and she stopped. 'Is someone in there?' she thought. She went to the door and looked in.

To her surprise, Virginia saw the Canterville ghost. He was sitting near the window, watching the first leaves of autumn dancing in the wind. His head was on his hand, and he looked very unhappy. At first, little Virginia wanted to run away and lock herself in her room, but then she began to feel sorry for him.

She went quietly into the room, but he did not see her until she spoke. 'I am so sorry for you,' she said. 'But my brothers are going back to school tomorrow, and then nobody will hurt you if you don't try to frighten us.'

The ghost was also surprised to see Virginia. 'But I am a ghost,' he answered. 'I must walk about at night, shake my chains, and go "Oooooh!" and "Aaaaagh!" through keyholes. That's my job. It's why I'm here.'

'It's not why at all,' said Virginia. 'And you have been very bad. Mrs Umney told us that you killed your wife.'

'Well, that's true,' said the ghost.

'It is very wrong to kill anyone,' Virginia told him.

'Oh, that's very easy to say!' said the ghost. 'My wife was not beautiful like you. And she was a bad housekeeper, and knew nothing about cooking. Well, it doesn't matter now. It's all finished. But I don't think it was very nice of her brothers to kill me.'

'They killed you?' said Virginia.

'Well, they locked me in a room without food or water until I died,' said the ghost.

'No food? Oh, Mr Ghost, I mean, Sir Simon, are you hungry? I have a sandwich — would you like it?'

'No, thank you,' said the Canterville ghost. 'I never eat anything now. But it's very kind of you. You are much nicer than the rest of your horrible family.'

'Stop!' cried Virginia, angrily. 'It is you who are horrible. You took the paints out of my paint box to make that stupid bloodstain in the library. You took my best reds, so I can't make any more pictures of the sun going down in the evenings. Then you took the green and the yellow. What's left? Dark blue and white! What pictures can I make with those? Only moonlight pictures, which are not easy to do. I never said a word about it to the others, but I was very angry. And it was all very stupid. Green blood! I've never seen green blood.'

'Well, what could I do?' said the ghost. 'It's very difficult to get real blood these days. And your brother started it all with his Pinkerton's Famous Stain Cleaner, so I used your paint. What's wrong with that? You Americans don't understand anything.'

'You know nothing about Americans or America,' said Virginia. 'Why don't you go there? Father will be very happy to pay for your ticket. There are people in America who are ready to pay a hundred thousand dollars to get a family ghost.'

'No, thank you,' said the ghost. 'I don't think I would like America.'

'Why? Because it doesn't have any old buildings that are falling down? Because everything is new and modern? Or because the people don't speak nicely? 'Virginia was angry.' Excuse me, but I must go and ask my father to give the twins another week's holiday!'

'Please don't go, Miss Virginia,' cried the ghost. 'I am so lonely and so unhappy, and I don't know what to do. I want to go to sleep, but I cannot.'

'That's stupid! You just go to bed and put out your candle. It's very easy to sleep. Even babies can do it, and they're not very clever.'

'I have not slept for three hundred years,' he said unhappily, and Virginia's beautiful blue eyes got bigger and bigger with surprise. 'Three hundred years!' he said again. 'And I'm so tired.'

She began to feel sorry for him once more. Her little mouth trembled like the leaves of a flower, and she looked at him kindly. 'Poor, poor ghost,' she said quietly, and moved nearer to him. 'Isn't there anywhere that you can sleep?'

'On the other side of the woods there is a garden,' he answered, with a far-away look in his eyes. 'The grass is long and deep, there are beautiful white flowers, and a bird sings sweetly all night long. The moon looks down, and the big old tree puts out its arms over the sleepers. '

'You — you mean the "Garden of Death",' Virginia said softly.

'Yes, Death. Death could be so beautiful. To lie quietly under the ground, with the grass above moving slowly in the wind, and everything silent ... To have no yesterday, and no tomorrow. To forget time, to have peace, and to be still for ever. ' He looked at her. 'You can open the door to Death for me, for Love is always with you, and Love is stronger than Death is.'

Virginia suddenly felt cold, and she began to tremble.

Then the ghost spoke again, and his voice was like a soft wind through the trees. 'Have you ever read the old words on the library window?' he asked.

'Oh, yes, often,' cried the little girl. 'I know them well. They are painted in strange black letters, and are difficult to read. There are only four lines:

When a golden girl has prayed for you,

And a little child has cried for you,

The house will then be quiet and still,

And peace will come to Cantervitle.

But I don't know what they mean.'

'They mean this,' said the ghost. 'You can pray for me, because I am bad and cannot pray. You can cry for me, and for all the bad things I have done, because I cannot cry. And if you have been sweet and good and kind, Death will be kind to me. Horrible shapes will come to frighten you in the darkness, and you'll hear terrible voices in your ear, but they cannot hurt you. They cannot win the fight against the goodness of a little child.'

Virginia did not answer, and the ghost watched her unhappily. Suddenly she stood up. Her face was very white, and there was a strange light in her eyes. 'I'm not afraid,' she said. 'I'll pray for you to die, and for you to have peace.'

With a small but happy cry, the ghost stood up, took her hand, and kissed it. His fingers were as cold as snow, and his lips burned like fire. Virginia went with him across the dark room. Suddenly the wall opened and there was a great black hole in front of her. A cold wind came out of the darkness, and she could feel something pulling at her dress.

'Come quickly, quickly!' cried the ghost. 'Or it will be too late.'

And in a second the wall closed behind them, and the room was empty.

skirt n. a wornan's outer garment hanging from the waist 裙子

keyhole n. a hole by which a key is put into a lock 锁眼；钥匙孔

kill v. to cause death 杀死

stupid adj. unintelligent, foolish 愚蠢的

lonely adj. unhappy because of being alone or without friends 孤独的；寂寞的

tremble v. shake involuntarily from fear, excitement, weakness, etc. 颤抖；哆嗦

peace n. a freedom from anxiety or troubling thoughts 安心；平静

pray v. to speak, often silently, to God or a god , privately or with others, to show love, give thanks, or ask for (something) 祈祷

empty adj. containing nothing 空的





5 ．可怜的幽灵


几天之后，弗吉尼娅和年轻的公爵一起去骑马。他们穿过一片树林时，有一棵树挂住了弗吉尼娅的裙子，破了个大洞。后来她回到家，从后面的楼梯来到自己的房间，想在别人瞧见之前把裙子换掉。

在去卧室的路上，她经过一个房间。这个房间不经常用，这时门却半开着，她停了下来。“难道里面有人？”她想。她走到门口向里看去。

令她大吃一惊的是，她看到了坎特维尔幽灵。他正坐在窗边，凝视初秋的落叶在风中飞舞。他双手托着头，看上去很不开心。开始小弗吉尼娅想逃开，把自己反锁在房间里，但后来她为幽灵难过起来。

她悄悄地走进房间，直到她开口说话，幽灵才看到她。“我真为你难过，”她说，“可明天我的兄弟们就要回学校去了，如果你不吓唬我们，就没人会伤害你。”

看到弗吉尼娅，幽灵也挺意外。“可我是个幽灵，”他回答说，“我必须 在晚上游来荡去，摇晃着我的铁链，冲着钥匙孔‘啾’、‘啊’乱叫。这就是我干的活儿，所以我才在这儿。”

“才不是这个原因呢！”弗吉尼娅说，“你坏透了。乌玛尼夫人说你杀死了自己的妻子。”

“唉，这倒是真的。”幽灵说。

“不管杀谁都是不对的。”弗吉尼娅告诉他。

“嘿，说起来倒容易！”幽灵说，“我老婆可没你那么漂亮，把家管得也不怎么样，对做饭也一窍不通。唉，现在这都不重要了，都结束了。可我觉得她的兄弟们把我杀了，这是不对的。”

“他们杀害了你？”弗吉尼娅问。

“嗯，他们把我锁在房间里，没有水，没有吃的，一直到死。”幽灵说。

“没有吃的？哎呀，幽灵先生，我是说，西蒙爵士，你还饿吗？我有三明治——你要吃吗？”

“不用了，谢谢。”坎特维尔幽灵说，“现在我什么都不吃了，你真好。你比你们家的其他那些讨厌的人强多了。”

“住嘴！”弗吉尼娅生气地喊道，“令人讨厌的是你。你从我的颜料盒里拿走了颜料，去书房里涂那块愚蠢的血迹。你拿了我最好的红色，我再也不能画傍晚太阳下山时的画了。后来你又拿走了绿色和黄色。还有什么剩下的？深蓝色和白色！我用这些还能画什么？只有不好画的月色。我从没对别人说过一个字，但我很生气。而且这一切都太蠢了。绿色的血！我从来没见过绿色的血。”

“啊，那我能怎么办？”幽灵说，“这年头不容易弄到真正的血了。你哥哥用平克顿去污剂把它弄了个精光，我只好用你的颜料了。这又怎么了？你们美国人真是啥也不懂。”

“你对美国人和美国一点儿都不了解，”弗吉尼娅说，“你为什么不去看看？爸爸会很乐意为你买票的。在美国会有人出十万块买一个家养幽灵的。”

“得了，谢谢你吧，”幽灵说，“我想我不会喜欢美国的。”

“为什么？因为那儿没有摇摇欲坠的老房子吗？因为一切都新鲜现代吗？还是因为人们的谈吐不雅？”弗吉尼娅生气了。“对不起了，我得去让爸爸给那对双胞胎再放一周假！”

“请不要走，弗吉尼娅小姐。”幽灵叫道，“我非常孤独，非常难过，可我不知道怎么办。我想睡觉，可是睡不着。”

“真愚蠢！你只要去床上，吹熄蜡烛。睡觉很容易，连婴儿也会，他们还都不怎么聪明呢。”

“我已经有300年没睡觉了。”他难过地说。弗吉尼娅那双美丽的眼睛由于吃惊睁得越来越大。“300年了！”幽灵又说，“我真累极了。”

她又一次为幽灵感到难过了。她的小嘴抖得像花儿的叶子，她温柔地看着他。“可怜的幽灵，”她柔声道，向他靠近了些。“那有没有你能睡着的地方？”

“在树林的另一边有一座花园，”他回答，眼神悠悠地飘向远方，“在那儿，草儿繁茂葱郁，花儿洁白美丽，还有鸟儿彻夜轻快地歌唱。月光下，巨大的古树伸出枝叶，覆盖着沉睡的人。”

“你——你是说‘死亡花园’。”弗吉尼娅轻轻地说。

“对，死亡。死亡是那么美。静静地躺在地下，上面的草儿随风摇曳，一切归于沉寂……没有昨天，也没有明天；遗忘了时间，拥有了宁静，永远地静止下去。”幽灵看着她，“你能为我打开死亡的大门，因为你一直拥有爱，爱比死亡更强大。”

弗吉尼娅一下子觉得全身冰冷，开始颤抖起来。

接着幽灵又说话了，他的声音像吹过树丛的轻风。“你看过书房窗户上那些过去留下来的话吗？”他问道。

“是的，经常看到。”小姑娘叫了出来，“我熟悉得很。那是用奇怪的黑花体字写成的，很难辨认。只有四行：

当金子般的姑娘为你祈祷，

当有个孩子为你哭泣，

宅邸终将归于沉寂，

宁静降临坎特维尔。

可我不懂那是什么意思。”

“它是这个意思，”幽灵说，“你能为我祈祷，因为我是坏蛋，不能祈祷。你可以为我哭，为我做的那么多坏事哭，因为我不能哭。如果你心地善良又温柔仁慈，死亡会对我网开一面。可怕的怪物会在黑暗中恐吓你，你会听到可怕的声音，但是他们伤害不了你。他们战胜不了一个孩子的善良。”

弗吉尼娅没有回答，幽灵郁闷地看着她。突然，她站了起来，脸色苍白，眼中闪着一种奇异的光芒。“我不害怕。”她说，“我为你祈祷，让你去死，让你拥有平静。”

幽灵开心地轻声叫起来，起身抓住她的手，吻了一吻。他的手指冷得像雪一样，而嘴唇却灼热如火。弗吉尼娅跟着他穿过黑暗的房间。突然，墙面打开了，她身前出现了一个巨大的黑洞。一股冷风从黑暗处刮了出来，她感到仿佛有东西在拽着她的裙子。

“快来，快啊！”幽灵叫道，“要不然就太迟了。”

刹那间，墙壁在他们身后合上了，屋子里又变得空荡荡的。





6A SKELETON FINDS REST AT LAST


A SKELETON FINDS REST AT LAST

Ten minutes later, it was time for tea, but Virginia did not come down for it. At first, Mrs Otis did not worry. She knew that Virginia liked to go out into the garden every evening to get flowers for the dinner-table. But at six o'clock she sent the boys out to look for their sister, while she and Mr Otis looked in every room of the house.

At half-past six the boys came back. They could not find Virginia. Then Mr Otis, Washington, and the Duke of Cheshire got their horses and rode out into the woods and fields around Canterville Chase. They looked everywhere, and asked everybody, 'Have you seen Virginia?' But nobody could help them.

Just before midnight, they went back to the house. They were very worried, but Mr Otis told everybody to get some sleep. 'We'll begin again in the morning,' he said, 'and I'll send for some detectives from London.'

They were all standing at the bottom of the stairs when the clock sounded midnight. Suddenly there was a crash, followed by a loud and terrible cry. Thunder shook the house, and the sound of ghostly music came to their ears. Then a secret door opened in the wall at the top of the stairs — and out walked Virginia! She was very white, and she had a little box in her hands.

Everyone ran up the stairs. Mrs Otis threw her arms round her, the Duke of Cheshire kissed her again and again, and the twins laughed and danced around her.

'Where have you been?' said Mr Otis. 'We've looked everywhere for you, and your mother has been so frightened for you. You must never play these tricks again.'

'Only on the ghost!' shouted the twins, laughing.

'You must never leave my side again, my dearest Virginia,' said Mrs Otis, and she kissed the trembling child.

'Father,' said Virginia, 'I have been with the ghost. He is dead, and you must come and see him. He was a bad man, but he was really sorry for everything that he did. And look, he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died.'

All the family looked at her and the box, and they were too surprised to say a word. Virginia then took them through the secret door in the wall, and down a narrow passage, lit by a candle that Washington was carrying. At last they came to a heavy wooden door. When Virginia touched it, it opened slowly.

They found themselves in a little room with one small window in it. A skeleton lay on the floor, chained to the wall. A plate and a water jug were also on the floor, but they were too far away for the skeleton's fingers to get hold of them.

Virginia put her hands together and began to pray silently. The others looked down at the skeleton of Sir Simon de Canterville. Now they knew the terrible secret of his death.

'He is peaceful now,' said Virginia. 'I prayed to God to give him peace.'

And suddenly the others were sure that they could see a beautiful light around Virginia's face.

'You are wonderful!' cried the young Duke, and he put his arm round her neck, and kissed her.

*　*　*

Four days later, at about eleven o'clock at night, they took Sir Simon de Canterville to the 'Garden of Death', where he wanted to be. Lord Canterville came specially from Wales to be there with the Otis family.

They put Sir Simon into the ground, and Virginia put a cross made of beautiful white flowers on the ground next to him. When she did this, the moon came out from behind a cloud, and the little night bird began to sing its sweet, high song.

Virginia was very quiet during the drive home.

The next morning, before Lord Canterville left, Mr Otis spoke to him about the box of jewels.

'My lord,' he said, 'these jewels belong to you, or to your family. Virginia asks for only one thing — the box. Can she keep it?'

'My dear sir,' replied Lord Canterville, 'your daughter has been a wonderful friend to one of my family. We shall always thank her for that. And remember, you bought the house and everything in it — the ghost, too! Anything that belonged to him is now yours. No, Mr Otis, your daughter must keep the jewels. When she is a woman, she will be happy to have pretty things to wear.'

So Virginia kept the jewels. And she wore them in the spring of 1890, when she married the young Duke of Cheshire; and everyone said, 'How beautiful!'

Some time later, she and her husband went down to Canterville Chase. One afternoon, they walked through the woods to the Garden of Death, and to the old tree.

'Virginia,' said the Duke. 'Tell me something. What happened when you were locked up with the ghost?'

'Please don't ask me, Cecil, I cannot tell you,' she said. 'Poor Sir Simon! I have much to thank him for. Yes, don't laugh, Cecil, I do. He helped me to understand about Life and Death, and that Love is stronger than both.'

The Duke kissed his wife lovingly. 'My dear, you can keep your secret. The only thing I want is your love,' he said.

'You have always had that, Cecil,' she said.

'And you will tell our children some day?'

Virginia did not answer, but her face went prettily red.

detective n. a person, esp. a member of a police force, employed to investigate crimes 侦探

jewel n. a decoration that contains one or more of diamonds and is worn on clothes or on the body 宝石饰物；首饰

touch v. bring the hand etc. into contact with 触摸；碰到

cross n. an upright post with a bar crossing it near the top; this shape as the sign of the Christian faith. 十字架

belong to to be the property of 属于





6 ．终得安息


十分钟后，到了吃茶点的时间，可弗吉尼娅并没有下楼来。一开始奥蒂斯夫人并不担心。她知道，弗吉尼娅喜欢每天傍晚到花园里去采些花装饰餐桌。可在6点钟的时候，她把男孩子们全都派出去找女儿，自己和奥蒂斯先生则搜遍了每一个房间。

6点半，男孩子们都回来了，他们找不到弗吉尼娅。接着奥蒂斯先生、华盛顿和柴郡公爵骑马找遍了树林和坎特维尔古堡的所有领地。他们四处寻找，逢人便问：“你见到弗吉尼娅了吗？”但没有人能帮上忙。

快到午夜时，他们回到家，都担心极了。奥蒂斯先生叫大家都去睡觉。“我们明天一早再找。”他说，“我再去伦敦叫几个侦探来。”

他们当时都站在楼梯下面，这时午夜的钟声敲响了。突然间“咔嚓”一声，紧接着传来一声可怕的大叫。雷声震动了整个宅子，他们听到一种鬼气森森的音乐。这时，楼梯顶上一道暗门打开了——弗吉尼娅走了出来！她脸色惨白，手里还捧着一个小盒子。

大家都跑上楼梯。奥蒂斯夫人张开双臂抱住她，柴郡公爵一遍又一遍地吻着她，双胞胎兄弟围着她又笑又跳。

“你去哪儿了？”奥蒂斯先生问，“我们到处找你，你妈妈为你担心得不行。你可不能再这么耍我们了。”

“只能耍幽灵！”双胞胎笑着叫道。

“你再也不能离开我身边了，我最亲爱的弗吉尼娅。”奥蒂斯夫人说。她亲吻着颤抖的女儿。

“爸爸，”弗吉尼娅说，“我一直和幽灵在一起。他死了，你一定得来看看他。他是个坏蛋，但他为所做的一切感到后悔。瞧，他死前还给了我这个装满珠宝的盒子。”

全家人看着她和珠宝盒子，惊讶地说不出话来。弗吉尼娅带他们穿过那道墙的暗门，走过一段窄窄的通道。华盛顿用蜡烛照着亮。最后他们来到一扇厚重的木门前。弗吉尼娅一碰它，门就缓缓地打开了。

他们发现自己身处一个小房间里，只有一扇小窗。一具骷髅倒在地板上，被铁链拴在墙上。地上还有一个盘子和一壶水，但是搁得太远了，骷髅的手指尖根本就够不到。

弗吉尼娅合起双手，默默地祈祷起来。其他人都低头看着这具骸骨——西蒙·德·坎特维尔爵士。现在他们都知道他死亡的可怕秘密了。

“现在他安息了，”弗吉尼娅说，“我向上帝祷告令他安息。”

突然之间，其他每个人都确定自己看到有一道圣洁的光芒环绕着弗吉尼娅的脸庞。

“你真棒啊！”年轻的公爵叫道。他用手臂搂住她的脖子，亲吻着她。

*　*　*

4天之后，大约晚上11点的时候，他们将西蒙·德·坎特维尔爵士的遗体带到了“死亡花园”，这里是他希望安息的地方。坎特维尔勋爵特意从威尔士赶来，加入奥蒂斯一家。

他们把西蒙爵士放入土中，在他旁边的地上，弗吉尼娅放了一个由白色鲜花做成的十字架。正在这时，月亮从云朵背后露出脸来，小夜莺开始轻快地高声歌唱。

在回家的路上，弗吉尼娅非常安静。

第二天上午，在坎特维尔勋爵离去之前，奥蒂斯先生跟他说了那一盒珠宝的事。

“勋爵，”他说，“这些珠宝属于您或您的家族。弗吉尼娅只要一件东西——这个盒子。能给她吗？”

“亲爱的先生，”坎特维尔勋爵答道，“您女儿是我们家族中一位成员的好朋友。为此我们会永远感激她。请记住，您买下了这座房子和这里的一切——还包括幽灵！曾经属于他的任何东西现在都是您的了。不，奥蒂斯先生，您女儿务必要留下这些珠宝。当她长大以后，有这些漂亮的东西打扮，她会很高兴的。”

于是弗吉尼娅留下了珠宝。1890年的春天，在她嫁给年轻的柴郡公爵时，她戴上了它们；而且每个人都赞叹道：“多漂亮啊！”

过了一阵子，夫妇两人回到坎特维尔古堡。一天下午，他们穿过树林，来到“死亡花园”，来到那棵老树下。

“弗吉尼娅，”公爵问，“告诉我，在你和幽灵在一起的时候，发生了什么事？”

“请别问我，塞西尔，我不能告诉你。”她说，“可怜的西蒙爵士！我真要好好感谢他。对，别笑，塞西尔，我是要感谢。他让我懂得了生与死，还有，爱比这两者都要强大。”

公爵充满爱意地吻了一下他的妻子。“亲爱的，你可以保守这秘密。我唯一要的就是你的爱。”他说。

“你一直拥有它，塞西尔。”她说。

“有一天你会讲给孩子们听吗？”

弗吉尼娅没有回答，可她的脸变得红彤彤的。





ACTIVITIESBefore Reading


1．Read the introduction of the book. How much do you know now about the story? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) Canterville Chase is more than 300 years old.

YES □／NO □

2) Lord Canterville's family believes in ghosts.

YES □／NO □

3) The Otis family believes in ghosts.

YES □／NO □

4) The ghost plans to be nice to the Otis family.

YES □／NO □

5) The Otis twins know a lot of tricks.

YES □／NO □

6) Lord Canterville pays Mr Otis to take the ghost away from Canterville Chase.

YES □／NO □

2．What is going to happen in the story? Can you guess? Tick one box for each sentence.

1) The Otis family try to help the ghost.

YES □／NO □

2) The Otis family take the ghost to America.

YES □／NO □

3) The ghost leaves Canterville Chase because he can't frighten anyone.

YES □／NO □

4) One of the Otis children helps the ghost to rest at last.

YES □／NO □

5) The ghost takes one of the children away from Canterville Chase.

YES □／NO □





ACTIVITIESWhile Reading


1．Read Chapter 1. Then answer these questions.

What

1) ... did the Duchess of Bolton feel on her shoulders?

2) ... couldn't Mr Otis buy in America?

3) ... did the Duke of Cheshire ask Virginia?

4) ... did Sir Simon de Canterville do in 1575?

5) ... did Washington clean off the library floor?

6) ... did Mrs Umney want Mr and Mrs Otis to do?

2．Before you read Chapter 2, can you guess what happens? Choose answers to these questions.

1) What will the Otis family find next morning?

(a) The ghost has killed Mrs Umney.

(b) The bloodstain is back on the library floor again.

(c) All the books in the library are on the floor.

(d) The ghost has broken the little black stick into pieces.

2) What will Mr Otis do when he meets the ghost?

(a) Tell him to leave.

(b) Sit down and talk to him.

(c) Give him a bottle of oil.

(d) Shoot him.

3．Read Chapters 2 and 3. Then put these sentences into the right order, to make a short paragraph.

1) At midnight he began to walk silently along the passage.

2) Then the ghost read the piece of paper, and understood that it was a trick.

3) He was very frightened, and ran back to his room.

4) On August 17th the ghost put on a shroud and a hat.

5) But when he touched the other ghost, its head fell off.

6) He felt very angry, but he couldn't think of a plan.

7) Early next morning he went to see the other ghost again, hoping to be its friend.

8) Suddenly he saw in front of him a horrible ghost, with eyes as red as fire.

4．Read Chapter 4. Then match these halves of sentences.

1) The ghost used oil on his chains...

2) One night the twins put butter on the top stair, ...

3) When the ghost went into the twins' room, ...

4) The ghost went down just to look at the bloodstain, ...

5) The ghost planned to do the Horseman of Death,...

6) a jug of water fell down on him and he got very wet.

7) because he didn't want anyone to hear him.

8) but in the end he was too frightened to leave his room.

9) which made the ghost fall down the stairs to the bottom.

10) but the twins and Washington were waiting for him.

5．Read Chapter 5. Choose the best question-word for these questions, and then answer them.

What/Where/Who/Why

1) ... did Virginia go up the back stairs?

2) ... was the ghost doing when Virginia saw him?

3) ... locked Sir Simon in a room without food or water?

4) ... was Virginia so angry about the bloodstain?

5) ... didn't want to go to America?

6) ... couldn't the ghost do?

7) ... did the ghost want to go?

8) ... two things could Virginia do for the ghost?

9) ... did the ghost go with Virginia?

6．Before you read Chapter 6, can you guess how the story ends? Choose as many of these ideas as you like.

1) Nobody ever sees Virginia again.

2) Nobody ever sees the ghost again.

3) Virginia comes back, but her hair is white.

4) The ghost is still in the house, but only Virginia can see him.

5) The ghost gives Virginia a box of beautiful jewels.

6) Virginia shows her family the skeleton of Sir Simon.

7) The Otis family go back to America with the ghost.

8) The Otis family take Sir Simon to the 'Garden of Death'.

9) Virginia marries the Duke of Cheshire.





ACTIVITIESAfter Reading


1．Perhaps this is what the ghost was thinking when all those terrible things happened to him. Find the right word to complete each passage, and then describe what is happening in the story at this moment.

1) 'Oh! Ouch! ! Ow! I hurt everywhere. There was ______ on that top stair — I'm sure of it. Oh, those boys are going to be sorry that they did this — very, very sorry.'

2) 'Where is it? It's gone — somebody's cleaned it! I'll have to make it again, but what with? Ah, what's this? I can use some of this red ______, with a bit of purple in it.'

3) 'I just don't understand these people. Lord Raker's hair turned white when he heard my famous laugh, but this woman just tries to give me ______ for my stomach!'

4) 'Who does this man think I am! It's my job to make a noise with these chains — and he tells me to put ______ on them! Oh, I haven't been so angry in years.'

5) 'It's another trick! Oh, I hate them all! I had an awful night, worrying about that horrible thing, and it was just a brush under a sheet, with a ______ for a head!'

2．Find these words in the word search below, and draw lines through them. The words go from left to right, and from top to bottom.

disappear, faint, false, feather, fireplace, frighten, ghost, horrible, jewels, jug, kiss, medicine, passage, pray, skeleton, trick

Now write down all the letters that do not have lines through them, beginning with the first line and going across each Jine to the end. You will have 33 letters, which will make a sentence of 8 words.

1) What is the sentence?

2) Who said it, and to whom?

3) Who did something to change this, and what did they do?

3．Here is a new illustration for the story. Find the best place in the story to put the picture, and answer these questions.

The picture goes in Chapter ______.

1) Which room of the house is this?

2) What is going to happen in a moment?

3) How will the ghost feel after that?

Now write a caption for the illustration.

Caption: __________________________.

4．Put these sentences in the right order to tell the story of Sir Simon de Canterville.

1) When the Otis family arrived, the ghost had a difficult time.

2) His wife's brothers locked him in a room without food or water, and he died there.

3) Then Virginia met the ghost, and prayed for him to die.

4) For 300 years he was the best ghost in the country.

5) Sir Simon murdered his wife in the library in 1575.

6) After that, Sir Simon's ghost never appeared again.

7) After that, his ghost began to appear in Canterville Chase.

8) The family found Sir Simon's skeleton, and put it in the ground in the 'Garden of Death'.

9) Then, in 1584, he suddenly disappeared.

5．These are some of the ways that Sir Simon liked to appear. Which is the most frightening and which is the least frightening, do you think? Put them in order.

·as a big black dog

· as a skeleton

·wearing heavy chains

· with no head

·in a shroud, smelling of death

What is the most frightening kind of ghost that you can think of? Complete this sentence.

I think the most frightening ghost in one that ______.
